<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act 3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Act <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></h2>
			<section id="scene-3-1" epub:type="z3998:scene z3998:verse">
				<h3>Scene <span epub:type="z3998:roman">i</span></h3>
				<p>The lane before <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lovewit</b>’s house.</p>
				<table>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>These chastisements are common to the saints,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And such rebukes, we of the separation</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Must bear with willing shoulders, as the trials</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sent forth to tempt our frailties.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">In pure zeal,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I do not like the man; he is a heathen,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And speaks the language of Canaan, truly.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I think him a profane person indeed.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">He bears</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The visible mark of the beast in his forehead.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And for his stone, it is a work of darkness,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And with philosophy blinds the eyes of man.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Good brother, we must bend unto all means,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That may give furtherance to the holy cause.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Which his cannot: the sanctified cause</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Should have a sanctified course.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Not always necessary:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The children of perdition are ofttimes</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Made instruments even of the greatest works:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Beside, we should give somewhat to man’s nature,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The place he lives in, still about the fire,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And fume of metals, that intoxicate</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The brain of man, and make him prone to passion.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where have you greater atheists than your cooks?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or more profane, or choleric, than your glass-men?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>More antichristian than your bell-founders?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>What makes the Devil so devilish, I would ask you,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Satan, our common enemy, but his being</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Perpetually about the fire, and boiling</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Brimstone and arsenic? We must give, I say,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Unto the motives, and the stirrers up</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of humours in the blood. It may be so,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>When as the work is done, the stone is made,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This heat of his may turn into a zeal,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And stand up for the beauteous discipline,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Against the menstruous cloth and rag of Rome.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>We must await his calling, and the coming</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of the good spirit. You did fault, t’ upbraid him</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With the Brethren’s blessing of Heidelberg, weighing</span>
								<br/>
								<span>What need we have to hasten on the work,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For the restoring of the silenced saints,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which ne’er will be, but by the philosopher’s stone.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And so a learned elder, one of Scotland,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Assured me; <i xml:lang="la">aurum potabile</i> being</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The only medicine, for the civil magistrate,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>T’ incline him to a feeling of the cause;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And must be daily used in the disease.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I have not edified more, truly, by man;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Not since the beautiful light first shone on me:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And I am sad my zeal hath so offended.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Let us call on him then.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">The motion’s good,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And of the spirit; I will knock first.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knocks.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Peace be within!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The door is opened, and they enter.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-3-2" epub:type="z3998:scene z3998:verse">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Scene <span epub:type="z3998:roman">ii</span></h3>
				<p>A room in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lovewit</b>’s house.</p>
				<table>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</b>, followed by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>O, are you come? ’twas time. Your threescore minutes</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Were at last thread, you see: and down had gone</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i xml:lang="la">Furnus acediae, turris circulatorius:</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Lembec, bolt’s head, retort and pelican</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Had all been cinders.⁠—Wicked Ananias!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Art thou returned? Nay then, it goes down yet.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Sir, be appeased; he is come to humble</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Himself in spirit, and to ask your patience,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If too much zeal hath carried him aside</span>
								<br/>
								<span>From the due path.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Why, this doth qualify!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>The Brethren had no purpose, verily,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To give you the least grievance; but are ready</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To lend their willing hands to any project</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The spirit and you direct.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">This qualifies more!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And for the orphans’ goods, let them be valued,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or what is needful else to the holy work,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>It shall be numbered; here, by me, the Saints,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Throw down their purse before you.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">This qualifies most!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Why, thus it should be, now you understand.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Have I discoursed so unto you of our stone,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And of the good that it shall bring your cause?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Showed you (beside the main of hiring forces</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Abroad, drawing the Hollanders, your friends,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>From the Indies, to serve you, with all their fleet)</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That even the medicinal use shall make you a faction,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And party in the realm? As, put the case,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That some great man in state, he have the gout,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Why, you but send three drops of your elixir,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You help him straight: there you have made a friend.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Another has the palsy or the dropsy,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He takes of your incombustible stuff,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He’s young again: there you have made a friend,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A lady that is past the feat of body,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Though not of mind, and hath her face decayed</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Beyond all cure of paintings, you restore,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With the oil of talc: there you have made a friend;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And all her friends. A lord that is a leper,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A knight that has the bone-ache, or a squire</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That hath both these, you make them smooth and sound,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With a bare fricace of your medicine: still</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You increase your friends.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Ay, it is very pregnant.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And then the turning of this lawyer’s pewter</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To plate at Christmas.⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Christ-tide, I pray you.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yet, Ananias!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">I have done.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Or changing</span>
								<br/>
								<span>His parcel gilt to massy gold. You cannot</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But raise you friends. Withal, to be of power</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To pay an army in the field, to buy</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The King of France out of his realms, or Spain</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Out of his Indies. What can you not do</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Against lords spiritual or temporal,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That shall oppone you?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Verily, ’tis true.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>We may be temporal lords ourselves, I take it.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>You may be anything, and leave off to make</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Long-winded exercises; or suck up</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Your “ha!” and “hum!” in a tune. I not deny,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But such as are not graced in a state,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>May, for their ends, be adverse in religion,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And get a tune to call the flock together:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For, to say sooth, a tune does much with women,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And other phlegmatic people; it is your bell.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Bells are profane; a tune may be religious.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>No warning with you! Then farewell my patience.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>’Slight, it shall down: I will not be thus tortured.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I pray you, sir.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">All shall perish. I have spoken it.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Let me find grace, sir, in your eyes; the man</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He stands corrected: neither did his zeal,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But as yourself, allow a tune somewhere.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which now, being toward the stone, we shall not need.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>No, nor your holy vizard, to win widows</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To give you legacies; or make zealous wives</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To rob their husbands for the common cause:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Nor take the start of bonds broke but one day,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And say, they were forfeited by providence.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Nor shall you need o’er night to eat huge meals,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To celebrate your next day’s fast the better;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The whilst the Brethren and the Sisters humbled,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Abate the stiffness of the flesh. Nor cast</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Before your hungry hearers scrupulous bones;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As whether a Christian may hawk or hunt,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or whether matrons of the holy assembly</span>
								<br/>
								<span>May lay their hair out, or wear doublets,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or have that idol starch about their linen.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>It is indeed an idol.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Mind him not, sir.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I do command thee, spirit of zeal, but trouble,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To peace within him! Pray you, sir, go on.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Nor shall you need to libel ’gainst the prelates,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And shorten so your ears against the hearing</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of the next wire-drawn grace. Nor of necessity</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Rail against plays, to please the alderman</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Whose daily custard you devour; nor lie</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With zealous rage till you are hoarse. Not one</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of these so singular arts. Nor call yourselves</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By names of Tribulation, Persecution,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Restraint, Long-patience, and suchlike, affected</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By the whole family or wood of you,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Only for glory, and to catch the ear</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of the disciple.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Truly, sir, they are</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ways that the godly Brethren have invented,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For propagation of the glorious cause,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As very notable means, and whereby also</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Themselves grow soon, and profitably, famous.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>O, but the stone, all’s idle to it! Nothing!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The art of angels’ nature’s miracle,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The divine secret that doth fly in clouds</span>
								<br/>
								<span>From east to west: and whose tradition</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Is not from men, but spirits.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">I hate traditions;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I do not trust them⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Peace!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">They are popish all.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I will not peace: I will not⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Ananias!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Please the profane, to grieve the godly; I may not.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Well, Ananias, thou shalt overcome.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>It is an ignorant zeal that haunts him, sir;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But truly, else, a very faithful Brother,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A botcher, and a man, by revelation,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That hath a competent knowledge of the truth.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Has he a competent sum there in the bag</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To buy the goods within? I am made guardian,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And must, for charity, and conscience sake,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Now see the most be made for my poor orphan;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Though I desire the Brethren too good gainers:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>There they are within. When you have viewed and bought ’em,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And ta’en the inventory of what they are,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>They are ready for projection; there’s no more</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To do: cast on the medicine, so much silver</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As there is tin there, so much gold as brass,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I’ll give’t you in by weight.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">But how long time,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sir, must the saints expect yet?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Let me see,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>How’s the moon now? Eight, nine, ten days hence,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He will be silver potate; then three days</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Before he citronise: Some fifteen days,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The <i xml:lang="la">magisterium</i> will be perfected.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>About the second day of the third week,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>In the ninth month?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Yes, my good Ananias.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>What will the orphan’s goods arise to, think you?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Some hundred marks, as much as filled three cars,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Unladed now: you’ll make six millions of them.⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But I must have more coals laid in.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">How?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Another load,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And then we have finished. We must now increase</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Our fire to <i xml:lang="la">ignis ardens</i>; we are past</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i xml:lang="la">Fimus equinus, balnei, cineris,</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And all those lenter heats. If the holy purse</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Should with this draught fall low, and that the saints</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Do need a present sum, I have a trick</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To melt the pewter, you shall buy now, instantly,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And with a tincture make you as good Dutch dollars</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As any are in Holland.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Can you so?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Ay, and shall ’bide the third examination.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>It will be joyful tidings to the Brethren.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>But you must carry it secret.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Ay; but stay,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This act of coining, is it lawful?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Lawful!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>We know no magistrate; or, if we did,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This is foreign coin.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">It is no coining, sir.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>It is but casting.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Ha! You distinguish well:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Casting of money may be lawful.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">’Tis, sir.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Truly, I take it so.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">There is no scruple,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sir, to be made of it; believe Ananias:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This case of conscience he is studied in.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation Wholesome</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I’ll make a question of it to the Brethren.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>The Brethren shall approve it lawful, doubt not.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where shall it be done?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knocking without.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">For that we’ll talk anon.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>There’s some to speak with me. Go in, I pray you,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And view the parcels. That’s the inventory.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I’ll come to you straight.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tribulation</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Ananias</b></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Who is it?⁠—Face! Appear.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</b> in his uniform.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>How now! Good prize?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Good pox! Yond’ costive cheater</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Never came on.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">How then?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">I have walked the round</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Till now, and no such thing.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">And have you quit him?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Quit him! an hell would quit him too, he were happy.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>’Slight! Would you have me stalk like a mill-jade,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>All day, for one that will not yield us grains?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I know him of old.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">O, but to have gulled him,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Had been a mastery.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Let him go, black boy!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And turn thee, that some fresh news may possess thee.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A noble count, a don of Spain, my dear</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Delicious compeer, and my party-bawd,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Who is come hither private for his conscience,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And brought munition with him, six great slops,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Bigger than three Dutch hoys, beside round trunks,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Furnished with pistolets, and pieces of eight,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Will straight be here, my rogue, to have thy bath,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>(That is the colour,) and to make his battery</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Upon our Dol, our castle, our Cinque-Port,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Our Dover pier, our what thou wilt. Where is she?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>She must prepare perfumes, delicate linen,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The bath in chief, a banquet, and her wit,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For she must milk his epididimis.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where is the doxy?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">I’ll send her to thee:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And but despatch my brace of little John Leydens,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And come again myself.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Are they within then?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Numbering the sum.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">How much?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">A hundred marks, boy.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Why, this is a lucky day. Ten pounds of Mammon!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Three of my clerk! A portague of my grocer!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>This of the Brethren! Beside reversions,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And states to come in the widow, and my count!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My share today will not be bought for forty⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">What?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Pounds, dainty Dorothy! Art thou so near?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yes; say, lord general, how fares our camp?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>As with the few that had entrenched themselves</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Safe, by their discipline, against a world, Dol,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And laughed within those trenches, and grew fat</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With thinking on the booties, Dol, brought in</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Daily by their small parties. This dear hour,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A doughty don is taken with my Dol;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And thou mayst make his ransom what thou wilt,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My Dousabel; he shall be brought here fettered</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With thy fair looks, before he sees thee; and thrown</span>
								<br/>
								<span>In a down-bed, as dark as any dungeon;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where thou shalt keep him waking with thy drum;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Thy drum, my Dol, thy drum; till he be tame</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As the poor blackbirds were in the great frost,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or bees are with a bason; and so hive him</span>
								<br/>
								<span>In the swanskin coverlid, and cambric sheets,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Till he work honey and wax, my little God’s-gift.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>What is he, General?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">An adalantado,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A grandee, girl. Was not my Dapper here yet?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>No.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i1">Nor my Drugger?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Neither.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">A pox on ’em,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>They are so long a furnishing! Such stinkards</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Would not be seen upon these festival days.⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>How now! Have you done?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Done. They are gone: the sum</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Is here in bank, my Face. I would we knew</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Another chapman now would buy ’em outright.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>’Slid, Nab shall do’t against he have the widow,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To furnish household.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Excellent, well thought on:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Pray God he come!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">I pray he keep away</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Till our new business be o’erpast.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">But, Face,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>How cam’st thou by this secret don?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">A spirit</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Brought me th’ intelligence in a paper here,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As I was conjuring yonder in my circle</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For Surly; I have my flies abroad. Your bath</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Is famous, Subtle, by my means. Sweet Dol,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You must go tune your virginal, no losing</span>
								<br/>
								<span>O’ the least time: and, do you hear? Good action.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Firk, like a flounder; kiss, like a scallop, close;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And tickle him with thy mother tongue. His great</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Verdugoship has not a jot of language;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>So much the easier to be cozened, my Dolly.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He will come here in a hired coach, obscure,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And our own coachman, whom I have sent as guide,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>No creature else.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knocking without.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i4">Who’s that?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">It is not he?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>O no, not yet this hour.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Who is’t?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Dapper,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Your clerk.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i1">God’s will then, Queen of Fairy,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>On with your tire;</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">and, Doctor, with your robes.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Let’s dispatch him for God’s sake.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">’Twill be long.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I warrant you, take but the cues I give you,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>It shall be brief enough.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes to the window.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>’Slight, here are more!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Abel, and I think the angry boy, the heir,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That fain would quarrel.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">And the widow?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">No,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Not that I see. Away!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">O sir, you are welcome.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The Doctor is within a moving for you;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I have had the most ado to win him to it!⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He swears you’ll be the darling of the dice:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He never heard her Highness dote till now.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Your aunt has given you the most gracious words</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That can be thought on.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Shall I see her Grace?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>See her, and kiss her too.⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</b>, followed by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">What, honest Nab!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Hast brought the damask?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">No, sir; here’s tobacco.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>’Tis well done, Nab; thou’lt bring the damask too?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yes: here’s the gentleman, Captain, master Kastril,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I have brought to see the Doctor.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Where’s the widow?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Sir, as he likes, his sister, he says, shall come.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>O, is it so? Good time. Is your name Kastril, sir?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Ay, and the best of the Kastrils, I’d be sorry else,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By fifteen hundred a year. Where is the Doctor?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My mad tobacco-boy, here, tells me of one</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That can do things: has he any skill?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Wherein, sir?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>To carry a business, manage a quarrel fairly,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Upon fit terms.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">It seems, sir, you are but young</span>
								<br/>
								<span>About the town, that can make that a question.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Sir, not so young, but I have heard some speech</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of the angry boys, and seen them take tobacco;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And in his shop; and I can take it too.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And I would fain be one of ’em, and go down</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And practise in the country.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Sir, for the duello,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The Doctor, I assure you, shall inform you,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To the least shadow of a hair; and show you</span>
								<br/>
								<span>An instrument he has of his own making,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Wherewith no sooner shall you make report</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of any quarrel, but he will take the height on’t</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Most instantly, and tell in what degree</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of safety it lies in, or mortality.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And how it may be borne, whether in a right line,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or a half circle; or may else be cast</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Into an angle blunt, if not acute:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And this he will demonstrate. And then, rules</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To give and take the lie by.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">How! to take it?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yes, in oblique he’ll show you, or in circle;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But never in diameter. The whole town</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Study his theorems, and dispute them ordinarily</span>
								<br/>
								<span>At the eating academies.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">But does he teach</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Living by the wits too?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Anything whatever.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You cannot think that subtlety, but he reads it.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He made me a Captain. I was a stark pimp,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Just of your standing, ’fore I met with him;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>It is not two months since. I’ll tell you his method:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>First, he will enter you at some ordinary.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>No, I’ll not come there: you shall pardon me.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">For why, sir?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>There’s gaming there, and tricks.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Why, would you be</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A gallant, and not game?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Ay, ’twill spend a man.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Spend you! it will repair you when you are spent:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>How do they live by their wits there, that have vented</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Six times your fortunes?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">What, three thousand a-year!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Ay, forty thousand.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Are there such?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Ay, sir,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And gallants yet. Here’s a young gentleman</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Is born to nothing⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Points to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</b>.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i6">forty marks a year,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which I count nothing:⁠—he is to be initiated,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And have a fly of the Doctor. He will win you,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By unresistible luck, within this fortnight,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Enough to buy a barony. They will set him</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Upmost, at the Groom porter’s, all the Christmas:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And for the whole year through, at every place,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where there is play, present him with the chair;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The best attendance, the best drink; sometimes</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Two glasses of Canary, and pay nothing;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The purest linen, and the sharpest knife,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The partridge next his trencher: and somewhere</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The dainty bed, in private, with the dainty.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You shall have your ordinaries bid for him,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As playhouses for a poet; and the master</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Pray him aloud to name what dish he affects,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which must be buttered shrimps: and those that drink</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To no mouth else, will drink to his, as being</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The goodly president mouth of all the board.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Do you not gull one?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">’Ods my life! do you think it?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You shall have a cast commander, (can but get</span>
								<br/>
								<span>In credit with a glover, or a spurrier,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For some two pair of either’s ware aforehand,)</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Will, by most swift posts, dealing with him,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Arrive at competent means to keep himself,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>His punk and naked boy, in excellent fashion,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And be admired for’t.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Will the Doctor teach this?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>He will do more, sir: when your land is gone,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As men of spirit hate to keep earth long,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>In a vacation, when small money is stirring,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And ordinaries suspended till the term,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He’ll show a perspective, where on one side</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You shall behold the faces and the persons</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of all sufficient young heirs in town,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Whose bonds are current for commodity;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>On th’ other side, the merchants’ forms, and others,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That without help of any second broker,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Who would expect a share, will trust such parcels:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>In the third square, the very street and sign</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where the commodity dwells, and does but wait</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To be delivered, be it pepper, soap,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Hops, or tobacco, oatmeal, woad, or cheeses.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>All which you may so handle, to enjoy</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To your own use, and never stand obliged.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I’faith! is he such a fellow?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Why, Nab here knows him.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And then for making matches for rich widows,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Young gentlewomen, heirs, the fortunat’st man!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He’s sent to, far and near, all over England,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To have his counsel, and to know their fortunes.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>God’s will, my sister shall see him.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">I’ll tell you, sir,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>What he did tell me of Nab. It’s a strange thing:⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By the way, you must eat no cheese, Nab, it breeds melancholy,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And that same melancholy breeds worms; but pass it:⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He told me, honest Nab here was ne’er at tavern</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But once in’s life!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Truth, and no more I was not.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And then he was so sick⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Could he tell you that too?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>How should I know it?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">In troth we had been a-shooting,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And had a piece of fat ram-mutton to supper,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That lay so heavy o’ my stomach⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">And he has no head</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To bear any wine; for what with the noise of the fiddlers,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And care of his shop, for he dares keep no servants⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>My head did so ach⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">And he was fain to be brought home,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The Doctor told me: and then a good old woman⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yes, faith, she dwells in Sea-coal Lane⁠—did cure me,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With sodden ale, and pellitory of the wall;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Cost me but twopence. I had another sickness</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Was worse than that.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Ay, that was with the grief</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Thou took’st for being ’sessed at eighteen-pence,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For the water-work.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">In truth, and it was like</span>
								<br/>
								<span>T’ have cost me almost my life.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Thy hair went off?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yes, sir; ’twas done for spite.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Nay, so says the Doctor.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Pray thee, tobacco-boy, go fetch my sister;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I’ll see this learned boy before I go;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And so shall she.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Sir, he is busy now:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But if you have a sister to fetch hither,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Perhaps your own pains may command her sooner;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And he by that time will be free.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Kastril</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">I go.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Drugger, she’s thine: the damask!⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Drugger</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Subtle and I</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Must wrestle for her.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i6">—Come on, master Dapper,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You see how I turn clients here away,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To give your cause dispatch; have you performed</span>
								<br/>
								<span>The ceremonies were enjoined you?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Yes, of the vinegar,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And the clean shirt.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">’Tis well: that shirt may do you</span>
								<br/>
								<span>More worship than you think. Your aunt’s afire,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But that she will not show it, t’ have a sight of you.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Have you provided for her Grace’s servants?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Yes, here are six score Edward shillings.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Good!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And an old Harry’s sovereign.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Very good!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And three James shillings, and an Elizabeth groat,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Just twenty nobles.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">O, you are too just.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I would you had had the other noble in Marys.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I have some Philip and Marys.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Ay, those same</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Are best of all: where are they? Hark, the Doctor.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</b>, disguised like a priest of Fairy, with a stripe of cloth.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In a feigned voice.</i> Is yet her grace’s cousin come?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">He is come.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And is he fasting?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Yes.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">And hath cried <em>hum</em>?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Thrice, you must answer.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Thrice.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">And as oft <em>buz</em>?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>If you have, say.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">I have.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Then, to her cuz,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Hoping that he hath vinegared his senses,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As he was bid, the Fairy Queen dispenses,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>By me, this robe, the petticoat of fortune;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which that he straight put on, she doth importune.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And though to fortune near be her petticoat,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Yet nearer is her smock, the Queen doth note:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And therefore, ev’n of that a piece she hath sent</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which, being a child, to wrap him in was rent;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And prays him for a scarf he now will wear it,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With as much love as then her Grace did tear it,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>About his eyes,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They blind him with the rag,</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i6">to show he is fortunate.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And, trusting unto her to make his state,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>He’ll throw away all worldly pelf about him;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Which that he will perform, she doth not doubt him.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>She need not doubt him, sir. Alas, he has nothing,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>But what he will part withal as willingly,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Upon her Grace’s word⁠—throw away your purse⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>As she would ask it;⁠—handkerchiefs and all⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He throws away, as they bid him.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>She cannot bid that thing, but he’ll obey.⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>If you have a ring about you, cast it off,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Or a silver seal at your wrist; her Grace will send</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Her fairies here to search you, therefore deal</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Directly with her highness: if they find</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That you conceal a mite, you are undone.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Truly, there’s all.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">All what?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">My money; truly.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Keep nothing that is transitory about you.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</b>.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Bid Dol play music.⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b> plays on the cittern within.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i6">Look, the elves are come.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To pinch you, if you tell not truth. Advise you.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They pinch him.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>O! I have a paper with a spur-rial in’t.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Ti, ti.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>They knew’t, they say.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Ti, ti, ti, ti. He has more yet.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Ti, ti-ti-ti.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</b></i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i4">In the other pocket.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Titi, titi, titi, titi, titi.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>They must pinch him or he will never confess, they say.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They pinch him again.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>O, O!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i1">Nay, pray you, hold: he is her Grace’s nephew,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ti, ti, ti? What care you? Good faith, you shall care.⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Deal plainly, sir, and shame the fairies. Show</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You are innocent.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">By this good light, I have nothing.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Ti, ti, ti, ti, to, ta. He does equivocate she says:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ti, ti do ti, ti ti do, ti da;</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i6">and swears by the <em>Light</em> when he is blinded.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>By this good <em>Dark</em>, I have nothing but a half-crown</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Of gold about my wrist, that my love gave me;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And a leaden heart I wore since she forsook me.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I thought ’twas something. And would you incur</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Your aunt’s displeasure for these trifles? Come,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I had rather you had thrown away twenty half-crowns.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Takes it off.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>You may wear your leaden heart still.⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b> hastily.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">How now!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>What news, Dol?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Yonder’s your knight, Sir Mammon.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>’Ods lid, we never thought of him till now!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where is he?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Here hard by: he is at the door.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>And you are not ready now! Dol, get his suit.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b>.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>He must not be sent back.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">O, by no means.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>What shall we do with this same puffin here,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Now he’s on the spit?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Why, lay him back awhile,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With some device.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol</b>, with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</b>’s clothes.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">—Ti, ti, ti, ti, ti, ti, Would her Grace speak with me?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I come.⁠—Help, Dol!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knocking without.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Speaks through the keyhole.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i6">Who’s there? Sir Epicure,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>My master’s in the way. Please you to walk</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Three or four turns, but till his back be turned,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And I am for you.⁠—Quickly, Dol!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">Her Grace</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Commends her kindly to you, master Dapper.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>I long to see her Grace.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">She now is set</span>
								<br/>
								<span>At dinner in her bed, and she has sent you</span>
								<br/>
								<span>From her own private trencher, a dead mouse,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And a piece of gingerbread, to be merry withal,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And stay your stomach, lest you faint with fasting:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Yet if you could hold out till she saw you, she says,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>It would be better for you.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Sir, he shall</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Hold out, an ’twere this two hours, for her highness;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I can assure you that. We will not lose</span>
								<br/>
								<span>All we have done.⁠—</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">He must not see, nor speak</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To anybody, till then.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">For that we’ll put, sir,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>A stay in’s mouth.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">Of what?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Of gingerbread.</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Make you it fit. He that hath pleased her Grace</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Thus far, shall not now crinkle for a little.⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Gape, sir, and let him fit you.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They thrust a gag of gingerbread in his mouth.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i6">Where shall we now</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Bestow him?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dol Common</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i4">In the privy.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i8">Come along, sir,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>I now must show you Fortune’s privy lodgings.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>Are they perfumed, and his bath ready?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Subtle</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span class="i10">All:</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Only the fumigation’s somewhat strong.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Face</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<span>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Speaking through the keyhole.</i>
								</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sir Epicure, I am yours, sir, by and by.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dapper</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
