<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Glossary</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="glossary" epub:type="glossary">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Glossary</h2>
			<p><em>abate</em>⁠—cast down, subdue.</p>
			<p><em>abhorring</em>⁠—repugnant (to), at variance.</p>
			<p><em>abject</em>⁠—base, degraded thing, outcast.</p>
			<p><em>abrase</em>⁠—smooth, blank.</p>
			<p><em>absolute(ly)</em>⁠—faultless(ly).</p>
			<p><em>abstracted</em>⁠—abstract, abstruse.</p>
			<p><em>abuse</em>⁠—deceive, insult, dishonour, make ill use of.</p>
			<p><em>acater</em>⁠—caterer.</p>
			<p><em>acates</em>⁠—cates.</p>
			<p><em>acceptive</em>⁠—willing, ready to accept, receive.</p>
			<p><em>accommodate</em>⁠—fit, befitting. (The word was a fashionable one and used on all occasions. See “Henry IV.,” pt. 2, iii. 4).</p>
			<p><em>accost</em>⁠—draw near, approach.</p>
			<p><em>acknown</em>⁠—confessedly acquainted with.</p>
			<p><em>acme</em>⁠—full maturity.</p>
			<p><em>adalantado</em>⁠—lord deputy or governor of a Spanish province.</p>
			<p><em>adjection</em>⁠—addition.</p>
			<p><em>admiration</em>⁠—astonishment.</p>
			<p><em>admire</em>⁠—wonder, wonder at.</p>
			<p><em>adrop</em>⁠—philosopher’s stone, or substance from which obtained.</p>
			<p><em>adscrive</em>⁠—subscribe.</p>
			<p><em>adulterate</em>⁠—spurious, counterfeit.</p>
			<p><em>advance</em>⁠—lift.</p>
			<p><em>advertise</em>⁠—inform, give intelligence.</p>
			<p><em>advertised</em>⁠—“be⁠—,” be it known to you.</p>
			<p><em>advertisement</em>⁠—intelligence.</p>
			<p><em>advise</em>⁠—consider, bethink oneself, deliberate.</p>
			<p><em>advised</em>⁠—informed, aware; “are you⁠—?” have you found that out?</p>
			<p><em>affect</em>⁠—love, like; aim at; move.</p>
			<p><em>affected</em>⁠—disposed; beloved.</p>
			<p><em>affectionate</em>⁠—obstinate; prejudiced.</p>
			<p><em>affects</em>⁠—affections.</p>
			<p><em>affront</em>⁠—“give the⁠—,” face.</p>
			<p><em>affy</em>⁠—have confidence in; betroth.</p>
			<p><em>after</em>⁠—after the manner of.</p>
			<p><em>again, against</em>⁠—in anticipation of.</p>
			<p><em>aggravate</em>⁠—increase, magnify, enlarge upon.</p>
			<p><em>agnomination</em>⁠—See Paranomasie.</p>
			<p><em>aiery</em>⁠—nest, brood.</p>
			<p><em>aim</em>⁠—guess.</p>
			<p><em>all hid</em>⁠—children’s cry at hide-and-seek.</p>
			<p><em>all-to</em>⁠—completely, entirely (“all-to-be-laden”).</p>
			<p><em>allowance</em>⁠—approbation, recognition.</p>
			<p><em>alma-cantaras</em>⁠—astronomy), parallels of altitude.</p>
			<p><em>almain</em>⁠—name of a dance.</p>
			<p><em>almuten</em>⁠—planet of chief influence in the horoscope.</p>
			<p><em>alone</em>⁠—unequalled, without peer.</p>
			<p><em>aludels</em>⁠—subliming pots.</p>
			<p><em>amazed</em>⁠—confused, perplexed.</p>
			<p><em>amber, ambre</em>⁠—ambergris.</p>
			<p><em>ambree, mary</em>⁠—a woman noted for her valour at the siege of Ghent, 1458.</p>
			<p><em>ames-ace</em>⁠—lowest throw at dice.</p>
			<p><em>amphibolies</em>⁠—ambiguities.</p>
			<p><em>amused</em>⁠—bewildered, amazed.</p>
			<p><em>an</em>⁠—if.</p>
			<p><em>anatomy</em>⁠—skeleton, or dissected body.</p>
			<p><em>andirons</em>⁠—fire-dogs.</p>
			<p><em>angel</em>⁠—gold coin worth 10 shillings, stamped with the figure of the archangel Michael.</p>
			<p><em>annesh cleare</em>⁠—spring known as Agnes le Clare.</p>
			<p><em>answer</em>⁠—return hit in fencing.</p>
			<p><em>antic, antique</em>⁠—, clown, buffoon.</p>
			<p><em>antic</em>⁠—like a buffoon.</p>
			<p><em>antiperistasis</em>⁠—an opposition which enhances the quality it opposes.</p>
			<p><em>apozem</em>⁠—decoction.</p>
			<p><em>apperil</em>⁠—peril.</p>
			<p><em>apple-john, apple-squire</em>⁠—, pimp, pander.</p>
			<p><em>apply</em>⁠—attach.</p>
			<p><em>apprehend</em>⁠—take into custody.</p>
			<p><em>apprehensive</em>⁠—quick of perception; able to perceive and appreciate.</p>
			<p><em>approve</em>⁠—prove, confirm.</p>
			<p><em>apt</em>⁠—suit, adapt; train, prepare; dispose, incline.</p>
			<p><em>apt(ly)</em>⁠—suitable(y), opportune(ly).</p>
			<p><em>aptitude</em>⁠—suitableness.</p>
			<p><em>arbor</em>⁠—“make the⁠—,” cut up the game (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>arches</em>⁠—Court of Arches.</p>
			<p><em>archie</em>⁠—Archibald Armstrong, jester to James I. and Charles I.</p>
			<p><em>argaile</em>⁠—argol, crust or sediment in wine casks.</p>
			<p><em>argent-vive</em>⁠—quicksilver.</p>
			<p><em>argument</em>⁠—plot of a drama; theme, subject; matter in question; token, proof.</p>
			<p><em>arride</em>⁠—please.</p>
			<p><em>arsedine</em>⁠—mixture of copper and zinc, used as an imitation of gold-leaf.</p>
			<p><em>arthur, prince</em>⁠—, reference to an archery show by a society who assumed arms, etc., of Arthur’s knights.</p>
			<p><em>article</em>⁠—item.</p>
			<p><em>artificially</em>⁠—artfully.</p>
			<p><em>ascension</em>⁠—evaporation, distillation.</p>
			<p><em>aspire</em>⁠—try to reach, obtain, long for.</p>
			<p><em>assalto</em> (Italian)⁠—assault.</p>
			<p><em>assay</em>⁠—draw a knife along the belly of the deer, a ceremony of the hunting-field.</p>
			<p><em>assoil</em>⁠—solve.</p>
			<p><em>assure</em>⁠—secure possession or reversion of.</p>
			<p><em>athanor</em>⁠—a digesting furnace, calculated to keep up a constant heat.</p>
			<p><em>atone</em>⁠—reconcile.</p>
			<p><em>attach</em>⁠—attack, seize.</p>
			<p><em>audacious</em>⁠—having spirit and confidence.</p>
			<p><em>authentic(al)</em>⁠—of authority, authorised, trustworthy, genuine.</p>
			<p><em>avisement</em>⁠—reflection, consideration.</p>
			<p><em>avoid</em>⁠—begone! get rid of.</p>
			<p><em>away with</em>⁠—endure.</p>
			<p><em>azoch</em>⁠—Mercurius Philosophorum.</p>
			<p><em>babion</em>⁠—baboon.</p>
			<p><em>baby</em>⁠—doll.</p>
			<p><em>back-side</em>⁠—back premises.</p>
			<p><em>baffle</em>⁠—treat with contempt.</p>
			<p><em>bagatine</em>⁠—Italian coin, worth about the third of a farthing.</p>
			<p><em>baiard</em>⁠—horse of magic powers known to old romance.</p>
			<p><em>baldrick</em>⁠—belt worn across the breast to support bugle, etc.</p>
			<p><em>bale</em> (of dice)⁠—pair.</p>
			<p><em>balk</em>⁠—overlook, pass by, avoid.</p>
			<p><em>ballace</em>⁠—ballast.</p>
			<p><em>balloo</em>⁠—game at ball.</p>
			<p><em>balneum (bain marie)</em>⁠—a vessel for holding hot water in which other vessels are stood for heating.</p>
			<p><em>banbury</em>⁠—“brother of⁠—,” Puritan.</p>
			<p><em>bandog</em>⁠—dog tied or chained up.</p>
			<p><em>bane</em>⁠—woe, ruin.</p>
			<p><em>banquet</em>⁠—a light repast; dessert.</p>
			<p><em>barb</em>⁠—to clip gold.</p>
			<p><em>barbel</em>⁠—fresh-water fish.</p>
			<p><em>bare</em>⁠—meer; bareheaded; it was “a particular mark of state and grandeur for the coachman to be uncovered” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>barley-break</em>⁠—game somewhat similar to base.</p>
			<p><em>base</em>⁠—game of prisoner’s base.</p>
			<p><em>bases</em>⁠—richly embroidered skirt reaching to the knees, or lower.</p>
			<p><em>basilisk</em>⁠—fabulous reptile, believed to slay with its eye.</p>
			<p><em>basket</em>⁠—used for the broken provision collected for prisoners.</p>
			<p><em>bason</em>⁠—basons, etc., were beaten by the attendant mob when bad characters were “carted.”</p>
			<p><em>bate</em>⁠—be reduced; abate, reduce.</p>
			<p><em>batoon</em>⁠—baton, stick.</p>
			<p><em>batten</em>⁠—feed, grow fat.</p>
			<p><em>bawson</em>⁠—badger.</p>
			<p><em>beadsman</em>⁠—prayer-man, one engaged to pray for another.</p>
			<p><em>beagle</em>⁠—small hound; fig. spy.</p>
			<p><em>bear in hand</em>⁠—keep in suspense, deceive with false hopes.</p>
			<p><em>bearward</em>⁠—bear leader.</p>
			<p><em>bedphere</em>⁠—See Phere.</p>
			<p><em>bedstaff</em>⁠—(?) wooden pin in the side of the bedstead for supporting the bedclothes (Johnson); one of the sticks or “laths”; a stick used in making a bed.</p>
			<p><em>beetle</em>⁠—heavy mallet.</p>
			<p><em>beg</em>⁠—“I’d⁠—him,” the custody of minors and idiots was begged for; likewise property fallen forfeit to the Crown (“your house had been begged”).</p>
			<p><em>bell-man</em>⁠—night watchman.</p>
			<p><em>benjamin</em>⁠—an aromatic gum.</p>
			<p><em>berlina</em>⁠—pillory.</p>
			<p><em>bescumber</em>⁠—defile.</p>
			<p><em>beslave</em>⁠—beslabber.</p>
			<p><em>besogno</em>⁠—beggar.</p>
			<p><em>bespawle</em>⁠—bespatter.</p>
			<p><em>bethlehem gabor</em>⁠—Transylvanian hero, proclaimed King of Hungary.</p>
			<p><em>bever</em>⁠—drinking.</p>
			<p><em>bevis, sir</em>⁠—, knight of romance whose horse was equally celebrated.</p>
			<p><em>bewray</em>⁠—reveal, make known.</p>
			<p><em>bezant</em>⁠—heraldic term: small gold circle.</p>
			<p><em>bezoar’s stone</em>⁠—a remedy known by this name was a supposed antidote to poison.</p>
			<p><em>bid-stand</em>⁠—highwayman.</p>
			<p><em>biggin</em>⁠—cap, similar to that worn by the Beguines; nightcap.</p>
			<p><em>bilive (belive)</em>⁠—with haste.</p>
			<p><em>bilk</em>⁠—nothing, empty talk.</p>
			<p><em>bill</em>⁠—kind of pike.</p>
			<p><em>billet</em>⁠—wood cut for fuel, stick.</p>
			<p><em>birding</em>⁠—thieving.</p>
			<p><em>black sanctus</em>⁠—burlesque hymn, any unholy riot.</p>
			<p><em>blank</em>⁠—originally a small French coin.</p>
			<p><em>blank</em>⁠—white.</p>
			<p><em>blanket</em>⁠—toss in a blanket.</p>
			<p><em>blaze</em>⁠—outburst of violence.</p>
			<p><em>blaze</em>⁠—(her.) blazon; publish abroad.</p>
			<p><em>blazon</em>⁠—armorial bearings; fig. all that pertains to good birth and breeding.</p>
			<p><em>blin</em>⁠—“withouten⁠—,” without ceasing.</p>
			<p><em>blow</em>⁠—puff up.</p>
			<p><em>blue</em>⁠—colour of servants’ livery, hence “⁠—order,” “⁠—waiters.”</p>
			<p><em>blushet</em>⁠—blushing one.</p>
			<p><em>bob</em>⁠—jest, taunt.</p>
			<p><em>bob</em>⁠—beat, thump.</p>
			<p><em>bodge</em>⁠—measure.</p>
			<p><em>bodkin</em>⁠—dagger, or other short, pointed weapon; long pin with which the women fastened up their hair.</p>
			<p><em>bolt</em>⁠—roll (of material).</p>
			<p><em>bolt</em>⁠—dislodge, rout out; sift (boulting-tub).</p>
			<p><em>bolt’s-head</em>⁠—long, straight-necked vessel for distillation.</p>
			<p><em>bombard slops</em>⁠—padded, puffed-out breeches.</p>
			<p><em>bona roba</em>⁠—“good, wholesome, plum-cheeked wench” (Johnson)⁠—not always used in compliment.</p>
			<p><em>bonny-clabber</em>⁠—sour butter-milk.</p>
			<p><em>bookholder</em>⁠—prompter.</p>
			<p><em>boot</em>⁠—“to⁠—,” into the bargain; “no⁠—,” of no avail.</p>
			<p><em>borachio</em>⁠—bottle made of skin.</p>
			<p><em>bordello</em>⁠—brothel.</p>
			<p><em>borne it</em>⁠—conducted, carried it through.</p>
			<p><em>bottle (of hay)</em>⁠—bundle, truss.</p>
			<p><em>bottom</em>⁠—skein or ball of thread; vessel.</p>
			<p><em>bourd</em>⁠—jest.</p>
			<p><em>bovoli</em>⁠—snails or cockles dressed in the Italian manner (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>bow-pot</em>⁠—flower vase or pot.</p>
			<p><em>boys</em>⁠—“terrible⁠—,” “angry⁠—,” roystering young bucks. (See Nares).</p>
			<p><em>brabbles (brabblesh)</em>⁠—brawls.</p>
			<p><em>brach</em>⁠—bitch.</p>
			<p><em>bradamante</em>⁠—a heroine in “Orlando Furioso.”</p>
			<p><em>bradley, arthur</em>⁠—OF, a lively character commemorated in ballads.</p>
			<p><em>brake</em>⁠—frame for confining a horse’s feet while being shod, or strong curb or bridle; trap.</p>
			<p><em>branched</em>⁠—with “detached sleeve ornaments, projecting from the shoulders of the gown” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>brandish</em>⁠—flourish of weapon.</p>
			<p><em>brash</em>⁠—brace.</p>
			<p><em>brave</em>⁠—bravado, braggart speech.</p>
			<p><em>brave (adv.)</em>⁠—gaily, finely (apparelled).</p>
			<p><em>braveries</em>⁠—gallants.</p>
			<p><em>bravery</em>⁠—extravagant gaiety of apparel.</p>
			<p><em>bravo</em>⁠—bravado, swaggerer.</p>
			<p><em>brazen-head</em>⁠—speaking head made by Roger Bacon.</p>
			<p><em>breathe</em>⁠—pause for relaxation; exercise.</p>
			<p><em>breath upon</em>⁠—speak dispraisingly of.</p>
			<p><em>brend</em>⁠—burn.</p>
			<p><em>bride-ale</em>⁠—wedding feast.</p>
			<p><em>brief</em>⁠—abstract; (mus.) breve.</p>
			<p><em>brisk</em>⁠—smartly dressed.</p>
			<p><em>brize</em>⁠—breese, gadfly.</p>
			<p><em>broad-seal</em>⁠—state seal.</p>
			<p><em>brock</em>⁠—badger (term of contempt).</p>
			<p><em>broke</em>⁠—transact business as a broker.</p>
			<p><em>brook</em>⁠—endure, put up with.</p>
			<p><em>broughton, hugh</em>⁠—, an English divine and Hebrew scholar.</p>
			<p><em>bruit</em>⁠—rumour.</p>
			<p><em>buck</em>⁠—wash.</p>
			<p><em>buckle</em>⁠—bend.</p>
			<p><em>buff</em>⁠—leather made of buffalo skin, used for military and serjeants’ coats, etc.</p>
			<p><em>bufo</em>⁠—black tincture.</p>
			<p><em>bugle</em>⁠—long-shaped bead.</p>
			<p><em>bulled</em>⁠—(?) bolled, swelled.</p>
			<p><em>bullions</em>⁠—trunk hose.</p>
			<p><em>bully</em>⁠—term of familiar endearment.</p>
			<p><em>bungy</em>⁠—Friar Bungay, who had a familiar in the shape of a dog.</p>
			<p><em>burden</em>⁠—refrain, chorus.</p>
			<p><em>burgonet</em>⁠—closely-fitting helmet with visor.</p>
			<p><em>burgullion</em>⁠—braggadocio.</p>
			<p><em>burn</em>⁠—mark wooden measures (“⁠—ing of cans”).</p>
			<p><em>burrough</em>⁠—pledge, security.</p>
			<p><em>buskin</em>⁠—half-boot, foot gear reaching high up the leg.</p>
			<p><em>butt-shaft</em>⁠—barbless arrow for shooting at butts.</p>
			<p><em>butter, nathaniel</em>⁠—(“Staple of News”), a compiler of general news. (See Cunningham).</p>
			<p><em>buttery-hatch</em>⁠—half-door shutting off the buttery, where provisions and liquors were stored.</p>
			<p><em>buy</em>⁠—“he bought me,” formerly the guardianship of wards could be bought.</p>
			<p><em>buz</em>⁠—exclamation to enjoin silence.</p>
			<p><em>buzzard</em>⁠—simpleton.</p>
			<p><em>by and by</em>⁠—at once.</p>
			<p><em>by(e)</em>⁠—“on the __,” incidentally, as of minor or secondary importance; at the side.</p>
			<p><em>by-chop</em>⁠—by-blow, bastard.</p>
			<p><em>caduceus</em>⁠—Mercury’s wand.</p>
			<p><em>caliver</em>⁠—light kind of musket.</p>
			<p><em>callet</em>⁠—woman of ill repute.</p>
			<p><em>callot</em>⁠—coif worn on the wigs of our judges or serjeants-at-law (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>calvered</em>⁠—crimped, or sliced and pickled. (See Nares).</p>
			<p><em>camouccio</em>⁠—wretch, knave.</p>
			<p><em>camused</em>⁠—flat.</p>
			<p><em>can</em>⁠—knows.</p>
			<p><em>candle-rent</em>⁠—rent from house property.</p>
			<p><em>candle-waster</em>⁠—one who studies late.</p>
			<p><em>canter</em>⁠—sturdy beggar.</p>
			<p><em>cap of maintence</em>⁠—an insignia of dignity, a cap of state borne before kings at their coronation; also an heraldic term.</p>
			<p><em>capable</em>⁠—able to comprehend, fit to receive instruction, impression.</p>
			<p><em>capaneus</em>⁠—one of the “Seven against Thebes.”</p>
			<p><em>caract</em>⁠—carat, unit of weight for precious stones, etc.; value, worth.</p>
			<p><em>caranza</em>⁠—Spanish author of a book on duelling.</p>
			<p><em>carcanet</em>⁠—jewelled ornament for the neck.</p>
			<p><em>care</em>⁠—take care; object.</p>
			<p><em>carosh</em>⁠—coach, carriage.</p>
			<p><em>carpet</em>⁠—table-cover.</p>
			<p><em>carriage</em>⁠—bearing, behaviour.</p>
			<p><em>carwhitchet</em>⁠—quip, pun.</p>
			<p><em>casamate</em>⁠—casemate, fortress.</p>
			<p><em>case</em>⁠—a pair.</p>
			<p><em>case</em>⁠—“in⁠—,” in condition.</p>
			<p><em>cassock</em>⁠—soldier’s loose overcoat.</p>
			<p><em>cast</em>⁠—flight of hawks, couple.</p>
			<p><em>cast</em>⁠—throw dice; vomit; forecast, calculate.</p>
			<p><em>cast</em>⁠—cashiered.</p>
			<p><em>casting-glass</em>⁠—bottle for sprinkling perfume.</p>
			<p><em>castril</em>⁠—kestrel, falcon.</p>
			<p><em>cat</em>⁠—structure used in sieges.</p>
			<p><em>catamite</em>⁠—old form of “ganymede.”</p>
			<p><em>catastrophe</em>⁠—conclusion.</p>
			<p><em>catchpole</em>⁠—sheriff’s officer.</p>
			<p><em>cates</em>⁠—dainties, provisions.</p>
			<p><em>catso</em>⁠—rogue, cheat.</p>
			<p><em>cautelous</em>⁠—crafty, artful.</p>
			<p><em>censure</em>⁠—criticism; sentence.</p>
			<p><em>censure</em>⁠—criticise; pass sentence, doom.</p>
			<p><em>ceruse</em>⁠—cosmetic containing white lead.</p>
			<p><em>cess</em>⁠—assess.</p>
			<p><em>change</em>⁠—“hunt⁠—,” follow a fresh scent.</p>
			<p><em>chapman</em>⁠—retail dealer.</p>
			<p><em>character</em>⁠—handwriting.</p>
			<p><em>charge</em>⁠—expense.</p>
			<p><em>charm</em>⁠—subdue with magic, lay a spell on, silence.</p>
			<p><em>charming</em>⁠—exercising magic power.</p>
			<p><em>chartel</em>⁠—challenge.</p>
			<p><em>cheap</em>⁠—bargain, market.</p>
			<p><em>chear, cheer</em>⁠—, comfort, encouragement; food, entertainment.</p>
			<p><em>check at</em>⁠—aim reproof at.</p>
			<p><em>chequin</em>⁠—gold Italian coin.</p>
			<p><em>chevril</em>⁠—from kidskin, which is elastic and pliable.</p>
			<p><em>chiaus</em>⁠—Turkish envoy; used for a cheat, swindler.</p>
			<p><em>childermass day</em>⁠—Innocents’ Day.</p>
			<p><em>choke-bail</em>⁠—action which does not allow of bail.</p>
			<p><em>chrysopoeia</em>⁠—alchemy.</p>
			<p><em>chrysosperm</em>⁠—ways of producing gold.</p>
			<p><em>cibation</em>⁠—adding fresh substances to supply the waste of evaporation.</p>
			<p><em>cimici</em>⁠—bugs.</p>
			<p><em>cinoper</em>⁠—cinnabar.</p>
			<p><em>cioppini</em>⁠—chopine, lady’s high shoe.</p>
			<p><em>circling boy</em>⁠—“a species of roarer; one who in some way drew a man into a snare, to cheat or rob him” (Nares).</p>
			<p><em>circumstance</em>⁠—circumlocution, beating about the bush; ceremony, everything pertaining to a certain condition; detail, particular.</p>
			<p><em>citronise</em>⁠—turn citron colour.</p>
			<p><em>cittern</em>⁠—kind of guitar.</p>
			<p><em>city-wires</em>⁠—woman of fashion, who made use of wires for hair and dress.</p>
			<p><em>civil</em>⁠—legal.</p>
			<p><em>clap</em>⁠—clack, chatter.</p>
			<p><em>clapper-dudgeon</em>⁠—downright beggar.</p>
			<p><em>claps his dish</em>⁠—a clap, or clack, dish (dish with a movable lid) was carried by beggars and lepers to show that the vessel was empty, and to give sound of their approach.</p>
			<p><em>claridiana</em>⁠—heroine of an old romance.</p>
			<p><em>clarissimo</em>⁠—Venetian noble.</p>
			<p><em>clem</em>⁠—starve.</p>
			<p><em>clicket</em>⁠—latch.</p>
			<p><em>clim o’ the cloughs</em>etc.⁠—wordy heroes of romance.</p>
			<p><em>climate</em>⁠—country.</p>
			<p><em>close</em>⁠—secret, private; secretive.</p>
			<p><em>closeness</em>⁠—secrecy.</p>
			<p><em>cloth</em>⁠—arras, hangings.</p>
			<p><em>clout</em>⁠—mark shot at, bull’s eye.</p>
			<p><em>clown</em>⁠—countryman, clodhopper.</p>
			<p><em>coach-leaves</em>⁠—folding blinds.</p>
			<p><em>coals</em>⁠—“bear no⁠—,” submit to no affront.</p>
			<p><em>coat-armour</em>⁠—coat of arms.</p>
			<p><em>coat-card</em>⁠—court-card.</p>
			<p><em>cob-herring, herring-cob</em>⁠—, a young herring.</p>
			<p><em>cob-swan</em>⁠—male swan.</p>
			<p><em>cock-a-hoop</em>⁠—denoting unstinted jollity; thought to be derived from turning on the tap that all might drink to the full of the flowing liquor.</p>
			<p><em>cockatrice</em>⁠—reptile supposed to be produced from a cock’s egg and to kill by its eye⁠—used as a term of reproach for a woman.</p>
			<p><em>cock-brained</em>⁠—giddy, wild.</p>
			<p><em>cocker</em>⁠—pamper.</p>
			<p><em>cockscomb</em>⁠—fool’s cap.</p>
			<p><em>cockstone</em>⁠—stone said to be found in a cock’s gizzard, and to possess particular virtues.</p>
			<p><em>codling</em>⁠—softening by boiling.</p>
			<p><em>coffin</em>⁠—raised crust of a pie.</p>
			<p><em>cog</em>⁠—cheat, wheedle.</p>
			<p><em>coil</em>⁠—turmoil, confusion, ado.</p>
			<p><em>cokely</em>⁠—master of a puppet-show (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>cokes</em>⁠—fool, gull.</p>
			<p><em>cold-conceited</em>⁠—having cold opinion of, coldly affected towards.</p>
			<p><em>cole-harbour</em>⁠—a retreat for people of all sorts.</p>
			<p><em>collection</em>⁠—composure; deduction.</p>
			<p><em>collop</em>⁠—small slice, piece of flesh.</p>
			<p><em>colly</em>⁠—blacken.</p>
			<p><em>colour</em>⁠—pretext.</p>
			<p><em>colours</em>⁠—“fear no⁠—,” no enemy (quibble).</p>
			<p><em>colstaff</em>⁠—cowlstaff, pole for carrying a cowl=tub.</p>
			<p><em>come about</em>⁠—charge, turn round.</p>
			<p><em>comfortable bread</em>⁠—spiced gingerbread.</p>
			<p><em>coming</em>⁠—forward, ready to respond, complaisant.</p>
			<p><em>comment</em>⁠—commentary; “sometime it is taken for a lie or fayned tale” (Bullokar, 1616).</p>
			<p><em>commodity</em>⁠—“current for⁠—,” allusion to practice of money-lenders, who forced the borrower to take part of the loan in the shape of worthless goods on which the latter had to make money if he could.</p>
			<p><em>communicate</em>⁠—share.</p>
			<p><em>compass</em>⁠—“in⁠—,” within the range, sphere.</p>
			<p><em>complement</em>⁠—completion, completement; anything required for the perfecting or carrying out of a person or affair; accomplishment.</p>
			<p><em>complexion</em>⁠—natural disposition, constitution.</p>
			<p><em>compliment</em>⁠—See Complement.</p>
			<p><em>complimentaries</em>⁠—masters of accomplishments.</p>
			<p><em>composition</em>⁠—constitution; agreement, contract.</p>
			<p><em>composure</em>⁠—composition.</p>
			<p><em>compter, counter</em>⁠—, debtors’ prison.</p>
			<p><em>concealment</em>⁠—a certain amount of church property had been retained at the dissolution of the monasteries; Elizabeth sent commissioners to search it out, and the courtiers begged for it.</p>
			<p><em>conceit</em>⁠—idea, fancy, witty invention, conception, opinion.</p>
			<p><em>conceit</em>⁠—apprehend.</p>
			<p><em>conceited</em>⁠—fancifully, ingeniously devised or conceived; possessed of intelligence, witty, ingenious (hence well conceited, etc.); disposed to joke; of opinion, possessed of an idea.</p>
			<p><em>conceive</em>⁠—understand.</p>
			<p><em>concent</em>⁠—harmony, agreement.</p>
			<p><em>conclude</em>⁠—infer, prove.</p>
			<p><em>concoct</em>⁠—assimilate, digest.</p>
			<p><em>conden’t</em>⁠—probably conducted.</p>
			<p><em>conduct</em>⁠—escort, conductor.</p>
			<p><em>coney-catch</em>⁠—cheat.</p>
			<p><em>confect</em>⁠—sweetmeat.</p>
			<p><em>confer</em>⁠—compare.</p>
			<p><em>congies</em>⁠—bows.</p>
			<p><em>connive</em>⁠—give a look, wink, of secret intelligence.</p>
			<p><em>consort</em>⁠—company, concert.</p>
			<p><em>constancy</em>⁠—fidelity, ardour, persistence.</p>
			<p><em>constant</em>⁠—confirmed, persistent, faithful.</p>
			<p><em>constantly</em>⁠—firmly, persistently.</p>
			<p><em>contend</em>⁠—strive.</p>
			<p><em>continent</em>⁠—holding together.</p>
			<p><em>control (the point)</em>⁠—bear or beat down.</p>
			<p><em>convent</em>⁠—assembly, meeting.</p>
			<p><em>convert</em>⁠—turn (oneself).</p>
			<p><em>convey</em>⁠—transmit from one to another.</p>
			<p><em>convince</em>⁠—evince, prove; overcome, overpower; convict.</p>
			<p><em>cop</em>⁠—head, top; tuft on head of birds; “a cop” may have reference to one or other meaning; Gifford and others interpret as “conical, terminating in a point.”</p>
			<p><em>cope-man</em>⁠—chapman.</p>
			<p><em>copesmate</em>⁠—companion.</p>
			<p><em>copy (lat. copia)</em>⁠—abundance, copiousness.</p>
			<p><em>corn (“powder⁠—”)</em>⁠—grain.</p>
			<p><em>corollary</em>⁠—finishing part or touch.</p>
			<p><em>corsive</em>⁠—corrosive.</p>
			<p><em>cortine</em>⁠—curtain, (arch.) wall between two towers, etc.</p>
			<p><em>coryat</em>⁠—famous for his travels, published as “Coryat’s Crudities.”</p>
			<p><em>cosset</em>⁠—pet lamb, pet.</p>
			<p><em>costard</em>⁠—head.</p>
			<p><em>costard-monger</em>⁠—apple-seller, coster-monger.</p>
			<p><em>costs</em>⁠—ribs.</p>
			<p><em>cote</em>⁠—hut.</p>
			<p><em>cothurnal</em>⁠—from “cothurnus,” a particular boot worn by actors in Greek tragedy.</p>
			<p><em>cotquean</em>⁠—hussy.</p>
			<p><em>counsel</em>⁠—secret.</p>
			<p><em>countenance</em>⁠—means necessary for support; credit, standing.</p>
			<p><em>counter</em>⁠—See Compter.</p>
			<p><em>counter</em>⁠—pieces of metal or ivory for calculating at play.</p>
			<p><em>counter</em>⁠—“hunt⁠—,” follow scent in reverse direction.</p>
			<p><em>counterfeit</em>⁠—false coin.</p>
			<p><em>counterpane</em>⁠—one part or counterpart of a deed or indenture.</p>
			<p><em>counterpoint</em>⁠—opposite, contrary point.</p>
			<p><em>court-dish</em>⁠—a kind of drinking-cup (Halliwell); N.E.D. quotes from Bp. Goodman’s “Court of James I.”: “The king … caused his carver to cut him out a court-dish, that is, something of every dish, which he sent him as part of his reversion,” but this does not sound like short allowance or small receptacle.</p>
			<p><em>court-dor</em>⁠—fool.</p>
			<p><em>courteau</em>⁠—curtal, small horse with docked tail.</p>
			<p><em>courtship</em>⁠—courtliness.</p>
			<p><em>covetise</em>⁠—avarice.</p>
			<p><em>cowshard</em>⁠—cow dung.</p>
			<p><em>coxcomb</em>⁠—fool’s cap, fool.</p>
			<p><em>coy</em>⁠—shrink; disdain.</p>
			<p><em>coystrel</em>⁠—low varlet.</p>
			<p><em>cozen</em>⁠—cheat.</p>
			<p><em>crack</em>⁠—lively young rogue, wag.</p>
			<p><em>crack</em>⁠—crack up, boast; come to grief.</p>
			<p><em>crambe</em>⁠—game of crambo, in which the players find rhymes for a given word.</p>
			<p><em>cranch</em>⁠—craunch.</p>
			<p><em>cranion</em>⁠—spider-like; also fairy appellation for a fly (Gifford, who refers to lines in Drayton’s “Nimphidia”).</p>
			<p><em>crimp</em>⁠—game at cards.</p>
			<p><em>crincle</em>⁠—draw back, turn aside.</p>
			<p><em>crisped</em>⁠—with curled or waved hair.</p>
			<p><em>crop</em>⁠—gather, reap.</p>
			<p><em>cropshire</em>⁠—a kind of herring. (See N.E.D.)</p>
			<p><em>cross</em>⁠—any piece of money, many coins being stamped with a cross.</p>
			<p><em>cross and pile</em>⁠—heads and tails.</p>
			<p><em>crosslet</em>⁠—crucible.</p>
			<p><em>crowd</em>⁠—fiddle.</p>
			<p><em>crudities</em>⁠—undigested matter.</p>
			<p><em>crump</em>⁠—curl up.</p>
			<p><em>crusado</em>⁠—Portuguese gold coin, marked with a cross.</p>
			<p><em>cry (“he that cried italian”)</em>⁠—“speak in a musical cadence,” intone, or declaim (?); cry up.</p>
			<p><em>cucking-stool</em>⁠—used for the ducking of scolds, etc.</p>
			<p><em>cucurbite</em>⁠—a gourd-shaped vessel used for distillation.</p>
			<p><em>cuerpo</em>⁠—“in⁠—,” in undress.</p>
			<p><em>cullice</em>⁠—broth.</p>
			<p><em>cullion</em>⁠—base fellow, coward.</p>
			<p><em>cullisen</em>⁠—badge worn on their arm by servants.</p>
			<p><em>culverin</em>⁠—kind of cannon.</p>
			<p><em>cunning</em>⁠—skill.</p>
			<p><em>cunning</em>⁠—skilful.</p>
			<p><em>cunning-man</em>⁠—fortune-teller.</p>
			<p><em>cure</em>⁠—care for.</p>
			<p><em>curious(ly)</em>⁠—scrupulous, particular; elaborate, elegant(ly), dainty(ly) (hence “in curious”).</p>
			<p><em>curst</em>⁠—shrewish, mischievous.</p>
			<p><em>curtal</em>⁠—dog with docked tail, of inferior sort.</p>
			<p><em>custard</em>⁠—“quaking⁠—,” “⁠—politic,” reference to a large custard which formed part of a city feast and afforded huge entertainment, for the fool jumped into it, and other like tricks were played. (See “All’s Well, etc.” ii. 5, 40.)</p>
			<p><em>cutwork</em>⁠—embroidery, open-work.</p>
			<p><em>cypres (cyprus) (quibble)</em>⁠—cypress (or cyprus) being a transparent material, and when black used for mourning.</p>
			<p><em>dagger (“⁠—frumety”)</em>⁠—name of tavern.</p>
			<p><em>dargison</em>⁠—apparently some person known in ballad or tale.</p>
			<p><em>dauphin my boy</em>⁠—refrain of old comic song.</p>
			<p><em>daw</em>⁠—daunt.</p>
			<p><em>dead lift</em>⁠—desperate emergency.</p>
			<p><em>dear</em>⁠—applied to that which in any way touches us nearly.</p>
			<p><em>decline</em>⁠—turn off from; turn away, aside.</p>
			<p><em>defalk</em>⁠—deduct, abate.</p>
			<p><em>defend</em>⁠—forbid.</p>
			<p><em>degenerous</em>⁠—degenerate.</p>
			<p><em>degrees</em>⁠—steps.</p>
			<p><em>delate</em>⁠—accuse.</p>
			<p><em>demi-culverin</em>⁠—cannon carrying a ball of about ten pounds.</p>
			<p><em>denier</em>⁠—the smallest possible coin, being the twelfth part of a sou.</p>
			<p><em>depart</em>⁠—part with.</p>
			<p><em>dependance</em>⁠—ground of quarrel in duello language.</p>
			<p><em>desert</em>⁠—reward.</p>
			<p><em>designment</em>⁠—design.</p>
			<p><em>desperate</em>⁠—rash, reckless.</p>
			<p><em>detect</em>⁠—allow to be detected, betray, inform against.</p>
			<p><em>determine</em>⁠—terminate.</p>
			<p><em>detract</em>⁠—draw back, refuse.</p>
			<p><em>device</em>⁠—masque, show; a thing moved by wires, etc., puppet.</p>
			<p><em>devise</em>⁠—exact in every particular.</p>
			<p><em>devised</em>⁠—invented.</p>
			<p><em>diapasm</em>⁠—powdered aromatic herbs, made into balls of perfumed paste. (See Pomander.)</p>
			<p><em>dibble</em>⁠—(?) moustache (N.E.D.); (?) dagger (Cunningham).</p>
			<p><em>diffused</em>⁠—disordered, scattered, irregular.</p>
			<p><em>dight</em>⁠—dressed.</p>
			<p><em>dildo</em>⁠—refrain of popular songs; vague term of low meaning.</p>
			<p><em>dimble</em>⁠—dingle, ravine.</p>
			<p><em>dimensum</em>⁠—stated allowance.</p>
			<p><em>disbase</em>⁠—debase.</p>
			<p><em>discern</em>⁠—distinguish, show a difference between.</p>
			<p><em>discharge</em>⁠—settle for.</p>
			<p><em>discipline</em>⁠—reformation; ecclesiastical system.</p>
			<p><em>disclaim</em>⁠—renounce all part in.</p>
			<p><em>discourse</em>⁠—process of reasoning, reasoning faculty.</p>
			<p><em>discourtship</em>⁠—discourtesy.</p>
			<p><em>discover</em>⁠—betray, reveal; display.</p>
			<p><em>disfavour</em>⁠—disfigure.</p>
			<p><em>disparagement</em>⁠—legal term applied to the unfitness in any way of a marriage arranged for in the case of wards.</p>
			<p><em>dispense with</em>⁠—grant dispensation for.</p>
			<p><em>display</em>⁠—extend.</p>
			<p><em>dis’ple</em>⁠—discipline, teach by the whip.</p>
			<p><em>disposed</em>⁠—inclined to merriment.</p>
			<p><em>disposure</em>⁠—disposal.</p>
			<p><em>disprise</em>⁠—depreciate.</p>
			<p><em>dispunct</em>⁠—not punctilious.</p>
			<p><em>disquisition</em>⁠—search.</p>
			<p><em>dissolved</em>⁠—enervated by grief.</p>
			<p><em>distance</em>⁠—(?) proper measure.</p>
			<p><em>distaste</em>⁠—offence, cause of offence.</p>
			<p><em>distaste</em>⁠—render distasteful.</p>
			<p><em>distempered</em>⁠—upset, out of humour.</p>
			<p><em>division (mus.)</em>⁠—variation, modulation.</p>
			<p><em>dog-bolt</em>⁠—term of contempt.</p>
			<p><em>dole</em>⁠—given in dole, charity.</p>
			<p><em>dole of faces</em>⁠—distribution of grimaces.</p>
			<p><em>doom</em>⁠—verdict, sentence.</p>
			<p><em>dop</em>⁠—dip, low bow.</p>
			<p><em>dor</em>⁠—beetle, buzzing insect, drone, idler.</p>
			<p><em>dor</em>⁠—(?) buzz; “give the⁠—,” make a fool of.</p>
			<p><em>dosser</em>⁠—pannier, basket.</p>
			<p><em>dotes</em>⁠—endowments, qualities.</p>
			<p><em>dotterel</em>⁠—plover; gull, fool.</p>
			<p><em>double</em>⁠—behave deceitfully.</p>
			<p><em>doxy</em>⁠—wench, mistress.</p>
			<p><em>drachm</em>⁠—Greek silver coin.</p>
			<p><em>dress</em>⁠—groom, curry.</p>
			<p><em>dressing</em>⁠—coiffure.</p>
			<p><em>drift</em>⁠—intention.</p>
			<p><em>dryfoot</em>⁠—track by mere scent of foot.</p>
			<p><em>ducking</em>⁠—punishment for minor offences.</p>
			<p><em>duill</em>⁠—grieve.</p>
			<p><em>dumps</em>⁠—melancholy, originally a mournful melody.</p>
			<p><em>durindana</em>⁠—Orlando’s sword.</p>
			<p><em>dwindle</em>⁠—shrink away, be overawed.</p>
			<p><em>ean</em>⁠—yean, bring forth young.</p>
			<p><em>easiness</em>⁠—readiness.</p>
			<p><em>ebolition</em>⁠—ebullition.</p>
			<p><em>edge</em>⁠—sword.</p>
			<p><em>eech</em>⁠—eke.</p>
			<p><em>egregious</em>⁠—eminently excellent.</p>
			<p><em>eke</em>⁠—also, moreover.</p>
			<p><em>e-la</em>⁠—highest note in the scale.</p>
			<p><em>eggs on the spit</em>⁠—important business on hand.</p>
			<p><em>elf-lock</em>⁠—tangled hair, supposed to be the work of elves.</p>
			<p><em>emmet</em>⁠—ant.</p>
			<p><em>engage</em>⁠—involve.</p>
			<p><em>enghle</em>⁠—See Ingle.</p>
			<p><em>enghle</em>⁠—cajole; fondle.</p>
			<p><em>engin(e)</em>⁠—device, contrivance; agent; ingenuity, wit.</p>
			<p><em>enginer</em>⁠—engineer, deviser, plotter.</p>
			<p><em>enginous</em>⁠—crafty, full of devices; witty, ingenious.</p>
			<p><em>engross</em>⁠—monopolise.</p>
			<p><em>ens</em>⁠—an existing thing, a substance.</p>
			<p><em>ensigns</em>⁠—tokens, wounds.</p>
			<p><em>ensure</em>⁠—assure.</p>
			<p><em>entertain</em>⁠—take into service.</p>
			<p><em>entreat</em>⁠—plead.</p>
			<p><em>entreaty</em>⁠—entertainment.</p>
			<p><em>entry</em>⁠—place where a deer has lately passed.</p>
			<p><em>envoy</em>⁠—denouement, conclusion.</p>
			<p><em>envy</em>⁠—spite, calumny, dislike, odium.</p>
			<p><em>ephemerides</em>⁠—calendars.</p>
			<p><em>equal</em>⁠—just, impartial.</p>
			<p><em>erection</em>⁠—elevation in esteem.</p>
			<p><em>eringo</em>⁠—candied root of the sea-holly, formerly used as a sweetmeat and aphrodisiac.</p>
			<p><em>errant</em>⁠—arrant.</p>
			<p><em>essentiate</em>⁠—become assimilated.</p>
			<p><em>estimation</em>⁠—esteem.</p>
			<p><em>estrich</em>⁠—ostrich.</p>
			<p><em>ethnic</em>⁠—heathen.</p>
			<p><em>euripus</em>⁠—flux and reflux.</p>
			<p><em>even</em>⁠—just equable.</p>
			<p><em>event</em>⁠—fate, issue.</p>
			<p><em>event(ed)</em>⁠—issue(d).</p>
			<p><em>evert</em>⁠—overturn.</p>
			<p><em>exacuate</em>⁠—sharpen.</p>
			<p><em>exampless</em>⁠—without example or parallel.</p>
			<p><em>excalibur</em>⁠—King Arthur’s sword.</p>
			<p><em>exemplify</em>⁠—make an example of.</p>
			<p><em>exempt</em>⁠—separate, exclude.</p>
			<p><em>exequies</em>⁠—obsequies.</p>
			<p><em>exhale</em>⁠—drag out.</p>
			<p><em>exhibition</em>⁠—allowance for keep, pocket-money.</p>
			<p><em>exorbitant</em>⁠—exceeding limits of propriety or law, inordinate.</p>
			<p><em>exornation</em>⁠—ornament.</p>
			<p><em>expect</em>⁠—wait.</p>
			<p><em>expiate</em>⁠—terminate.</p>
			<p><em>explicate</em>⁠—explain, unfold.</p>
			<p><em>extemporal</em>⁠—extempore, unpremeditated.</p>
			<p><em>extraction</em>⁠—essence.</p>
			<p><em>extraordinary</em>⁠—employed for a special or temporary purpose.</p>
			<p><em>extrude</em>⁠—expel.</p>
			<p><em>eye</em>⁠—“in⁠—,” in view.</p>
			<p><em>eyebright</em>⁠—(?) a malt liquor in which the herb of this name was infused, or a person who sold the same (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>eye-tinge</em>⁠—least shade or gleam.</p>
			<p><em>face</em>⁠—appearance.</p>
			<p><em>faces about</em>⁠—military word of command.</p>
			<p><em>facinorous</em>⁠—extremely wicked.</p>
			<p><em>fackings</em>⁠—faith.</p>
			<p><em>fact</em>⁠—deed, act, crime.</p>
			<p><em>factious</em>⁠—seditious, belonging to a party, given to party feeling.</p>
			<p><em>faeces</em>⁠—dregs.</p>
			<p><em>fagioli</em>⁠—French beans.</p>
			<p><em>fain</em>⁠—forced, necessitated.</p>
			<p><em>faithful</em>⁠—believing.</p>
			<p><em>fall</em>⁠—ruff or band turned back on the shoulders; or, veil.</p>
			<p><em>falsify</em>⁠—feign (fencing term).</p>
			<p><em>fame</em>⁠—report.</p>
			<p><em>familiar</em>⁠—attendant spirit.</p>
			<p><em>fantastical</em>⁠—capricious, whimsical.</p>
			<p><em>farce</em>⁠—stuff.</p>
			<p><em>far-fet</em>⁠—See Fet.</p>
			<p><em>farthingal</em>⁠—hooped petticoat.</p>
			<p><em>faucet</em>⁠—tapster.</p>
			<p><em>fault</em>⁠—lack; loss, break in line of scent; “for⁠—,” in default of.</p>
			<p><em>fautor</em>⁠—partisan.</p>
			<p><em>fayles</em>⁠—old table game similar to backgammon.</p>
			<p><em>fear(ed)</em>⁠—affright(ed).</p>
			<p><em>feat</em>⁠—activity, operation; deed, action.</p>
			<p><em>feat</em>⁠—elegant, trim.</p>
			<p><em>fee</em>⁠—“in⁠—” by feudal obligation.</p>
			<p><em>feize</em>⁠—beat, belabour.</p>
			<p><em>fellow</em>⁠—term of contempt.</p>
			<p><em>fennel</em>⁠—emblem of flattery.</p>
			<p><em>fere</em>⁠—companion, fellow.</p>
			<p><em>fern-seed</em>⁠—supposed to have power of rendering invisible.</p>
			<p><em>fet</em>⁠—fetched.</p>
			<p><em>fetch</em>⁠—trick.</p>
			<p><em>feuterer (fr. vautrier)</em>⁠—dog-keeper.</p>
			<p><em>fewmets</em>⁠—dung.</p>
			<p><em>fico</em>⁠—fig.</p>
			<p><em>figgum</em>⁠—(?) jugglery.</p>
			<p><em>figment</em>⁠—fiction, invention.</p>
			<p><em>firk</em>⁠—frisk, move suddenly, or in jerks; “⁠—up,” stir up, rouse; “firks mad,” suddenly behaves like a madman.</p>
			<p><em>fit</em>⁠—pay one out, punish.</p>
			<p><em>fitness</em>⁠—readiness.</p>
			<p><em>fitton (fitten)</em>⁠—lie, invention.</p>
			<p><em>five-and-fifty</em>⁠—“highest number to stand on at primero” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>flag</em>⁠—to fly low and waveringly.</p>
			<p><em>flagon chain</em>⁠—for hanging a smelling-bottle (Fr. flacon) round the neck (?). (See N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>flap-dragon</em>⁠—game similar to snap-dragon.</p>
			<p><em>flasket</em>⁠—some kind of basket.</p>
			<p><em>flaw</em>⁠—sudden gust or squall of wind.</p>
			<p><em>flawn</em>⁠—custard.</p>
			<p><em>flea</em>⁠—catch fleas.</p>
			<p><em>fleer</em>⁠—sneer, laugh derisively.</p>
			<p><em>flesh</em>⁠—feed a hawk or dog with flesh to incite it to the chase; initiate in blood-shed; satiate.</p>
			<p><em>flicker-mouse</em>⁠—bat.</p>
			<p><em>flight</em>⁠—light arrow.</p>
			<p><em>flitter-mouse</em>⁠—bat.</p>
			<p><em>flout</em>⁠—mock, speak and act contemptuously.</p>
			<p><em>flowers</em>⁠—pulverised substance.</p>
			<p><em>fly</em>⁠—familiar spirit.</p>
			<p><em>foil</em>⁠—weapon used in fencing; that which sets anything off to advantage.</p>
			<p><em>foist</em>⁠—cut-purse, sharper.</p>
			<p><em>fond(ly)</em>⁠—foolish(ly).</p>
			<p><em>foot-cloth</em>⁠—housings of ornamental cloth which hung down on either side a horse to the ground.</p>
			<p><em>footing</em>⁠—foothold; footstep; dancing.</p>
			<p><em>foppery</em>⁠—foolery.</p>
			<p><em>for</em>⁠—“⁠—failing,” for fear of failing.</p>
			<p><em>forbear</em>⁠—bear with; abstain from.</p>
			<p><em>force</em>⁠—“hunt at⁠—,” run the game down with dogs.</p>
			<p><em>forehead</em>⁠—modesty; face, assurance, effrontery.</p>
			<p><em>foreslow</em>⁠—delay.</p>
			<p><em>forespeak</em>⁠—bewitch; foretell.</p>
			<p><em>foretop</em>⁠—front lock of hair which fashion required to be worn upright.</p>
			<p><em>forged</em>⁠—fabricated.</p>
			<p><em>form</em>⁠—state formally.</p>
			<p><em>formal</em>⁠—shapely; normal; conventional.</p>
			<p><em>forthcoming</em>⁠—produced when required.</p>
			<p><em>founder</em>⁠—disable with over-riding.</p>
			<p><em>fourm</em>⁠—form, lair.</p>
			<p><em>fox</em>⁠—sword.</p>
			<p><em>frail</em>⁠—rush basket in which figs or raisins were packed.</p>
			<p><em>frampull</em>⁠—peevish, sour-tempered.</p>
			<p><em>frapler</em>⁠—blusterer, wrangler.</p>
			<p><em>fraying</em>⁠—“a stag is said to fray his head when he rubs it against a tree to … cause the outward coat of the new horns to fall off” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>freight (of the gazetti)</em>⁠—burden (of the newspapers).</p>
			<p><em>frequent</em>⁠—full.</p>
			<p><em>fricace</em>⁠—rubbing.</p>
			<p><em>fricatrice</em>⁠—woman of low character.</p>
			<p><em>frippery</em>⁠—old clothes shop.</p>
			<p><em>frock</em>⁠—smock-frock.</p>
			<p><em>frolics</em>⁠—(?) humorous verses circulated at a feast (N.E.D.); couplets wrapped round sweetmeats (Cunningham).</p>
			<p><em>frontless</em>⁠—shameless.</p>
			<p><em>froted</em>⁠—rubbed.</p>
			<p><em>frumety</em>⁠—hulled wheat boiled in milk and spiced.</p>
			<p><em>frump</em>⁠—flout, sneer.</p>
			<p><em>fucus</em>⁠—dye.</p>
			<p><em>fugeand</em>⁠—(?) figent: fidgety, restless (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>fullam</em>⁠—false dice.</p>
			<p><em>fulmart</em>⁠—polecat.</p>
			<p><em>fulsome</em>⁠—foul, offensive.</p>
			<p><em>furibund</em>⁠—raging, furious.</p>
			<p><em>galley-foist</em>⁠—city-barge, used on Lord Mayor’s Day, when he was sworn into his office at Westminster (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>galliard</em>⁠—lively dance in triple time.</p>
			<p><em>gape</em>⁠—be eager after.</p>
			<p><em>garagantua</em>⁠—Rabelais’ giant.</p>
			<p><em>garb</em>⁠—sheaf (Fr. gerbe); manner, fashion, behaviour.</p>
			<p><em>gard</em>⁠—guard, trimming, gold or silver lace, or other ornament.</p>
			<p><em>garded</em>⁠—faced or trimmed.</p>
			<p><em>garnish</em>⁠—fee.</p>
			<p><em>gavel-kind</em>⁠—name of a land-tenure existing chiefly in Kent; from 16th century often used to denote custom of dividing a deceased man’s property equally among his sons (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>gazette</em>⁠—small Venetian coin worth about three-farthings.</p>
			<p><em>geance</em>⁠—jaunt, errand.</p>
			<p><em>gear (geer)</em>⁠—stuff, matter, affair.</p>
			<p><em>gelid</em>⁠—frozen.</p>
			<p><em>gemonies</em>⁠—steps from which the bodies of criminals were thrown into the river.</p>
			<p><em>general</em>⁠—free, affable.</p>
			<p><em>genius</em>⁠—attendant spirit.</p>
			<p><em>gentry</em>⁠—gentlemen; manners characteristic of gentry, good breeding.</p>
			<p><em>gib-cat</em>⁠—tom-cat.</p>
			<p><em>gigantomachize</em>⁠—start a giants’ war.</p>
			<p><em>giglot</em>⁠—wanton.</p>
			<p><em>gimblet</em>⁠—gimlet.</p>
			<p><em>ging</em>⁠—gang.</p>
			<p><em>glass (“taking in of shadows, etc.”)</em>⁠—crystal or beryl.</p>
			<p><em>gleek</em>⁠—card game played by three; party of three, trio; side glance.</p>
			<p><em>glick (gleek)</em>⁠—jest, gibe.</p>
			<p><em>glidder</em>⁠—glaze.</p>
			<p><em>gloriously</em>⁠—of vain glory.</p>
			<p><em>godwit</em>⁠—bird of the snipe family.</p>
			<p><em>gold-end-man</em>⁠—a buyer of broken gold and silver.</p>
			<p><em>goll</em>⁠—hand.</p>
			<p><em>gonfalionier</em>⁠—standard-bearer, chief magistrate, etc.</p>
			<p><em>good</em>⁠—sound in credit.</p>
			<p><em>good-year</em>⁠—good luck.</p>
			<p><em>goose-turd</em>⁠—colour of. (See Turd).</p>
			<p><em>gorcrow</em>⁠—carrion crow.</p>
			<p><em>gorget</em>⁠—neck armour.</p>
			<p><em>gossip</em>⁠—godfather.</p>
			<p><em>gowked</em>⁠—from “gowk,” to stand staring and gaping like a fool.</p>
			<p><em>grannam</em>⁠—grandam.</p>
			<p><em>grass</em>⁠—(?) grease, fat.</p>
			<p><em>grateful</em>⁠—agreeable, welcome.</p>
			<p><em>gratify</em>⁠—give thanks to.</p>
			<p><em>gratitude</em>⁠—gratuity.</p>
			<p><em>gratulate</em>⁠—welcome, congratulate.</p>
			<p><em>gravity</em>⁠—dignity.</p>
			<p><em>gray</em>⁠—badger.</p>
			<p><em>grice</em>⁠—cub.</p>
			<p><em>grief</em>⁠—grievance.</p>
			<p><em>gripe</em>⁠—vulture, griffin.</p>
			<p><em>gripe’s egg</em>⁠—vessel in shape of.</p>
			<p><em>groat</em>⁠—fourpence.</p>
			<p><em>grogran</em>⁠—coarse stuff made of silk and mohair, or of coarse silk.</p>
			<p><em>groom-porter</em>⁠—officer in the royal household.</p>
			<p><em>grope</em>⁠—handle, probe.</p>
			<p><em>ground</em>⁠—pit (hence “grounded judgments”).</p>
			<p><em>guard</em>⁠—caution, heed.</p>
			<p><em>guardant</em>⁠—heraldic term: turning the head only.</p>
			<p><em>guilder</em>⁠—Dutch coin worth about 4d.</p>
			<p><em>gules</em>⁠—gullet, throat; heraldic term for red.</p>
			<p><em>gull</em>⁠—simpleton, dupe.</p>
			<p><em>gust</em>⁠—taste.</p>
			<p><em>hab nab</em>⁠—by, on, chance.</p>
			<p><em>habergeon</em>⁠—coat of mail.</p>
			<p><em>haggard</em>⁠—wild female hawk; hence coy, wild.</p>
			<p><em>halberd</em>⁠—combination of lance and battle-axe.</p>
			<p><em>hall</em>⁠—“a⁠—!” a cry to clear the room for the dancers.</p>
			<p><em>handsel</em>⁠—first money taken.</p>
			<p><em>hanger</em>⁠—loop or strap on a sword-belt from which the sword was suspended.</p>
			<p><em>hap</em>⁠—fortune, luck.</p>
			<p><em>happily</em>⁠—haply.</p>
			<p><em>happiness</em>⁠—appropriateness, fitness.</p>
			<p><em>happy</em>⁠—rich.</p>
			<p><em>harbour</em>⁠—track, trace (an animal) to its shelter.</p>
			<p><em>hard-favoured</em>⁠—harsh-featured.</p>
			<p><em>harpocrates</em>⁠—Horus the child, son of Osiris, figured with a finger pointing to his mouth, indicative of silence.</p>
			<p><em>harrington</em>⁠—a patent was granted to Lord H. for the coinage of tokens (q.v.).</p>
			<p><em>harrot</em>⁠—herald.</p>
			<p><em>harry nicholas</em>⁠—founder of a community called the “Family of Love.”</p>
			<p><em>hay</em>⁠—net for catching rabbits, etc.</p>
			<p><em>hay!</em> (Ital. hai!)⁠—you have it (a fencing term).</p>
			<p><em>hay in his horn</em>⁠—ill-tempered person.</p>
			<p><em>hazard</em>⁠—game at dice; that which is staked.</p>
			<p><em>head</em>⁠—“first⁠—,” young deer with antlers first sprouting; fig. a newly-ennobled man.</p>
			<p><em>headborough</em>⁠—constable.</p>
			<p><em>hearken after</em>⁠—inquire; “hearken out,” find, search out.</p>
			<p><em>hearten</em>⁠—encourage.</p>
			<p><em>heaven and hell</em>⁠—(“Alchemist”), names of taverns.</p>
			<p><em>hectic</em>⁠—fever.</p>
			<p><em>hedge in</em>⁠—include.</p>
			<p><em>helm</em>⁠—upper part of a retort.</p>
			<p><em>her’nsew</em>⁠—hernshaw, heron.</p>
			<p><em>hieronimo (jeronimo)</em>⁠—hero of Kyd’s “Spanish Tragedy.”</p>
			<p><em>hobby</em>⁠—nag.</p>
			<p><em>hobby-horse</em>⁠—imitation horse of some light material, fastened round the waist of the morrice-dancer, who imitated the movements of a skittish horse.</p>
			<p><em>hoddy-doddy</em>⁠—fool.</p>
			<p><em>hoiden</em>⁠—hoyden, formerly applied to both sexes (ancient term for leveret? Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>holland</em>⁠—name of two famous chemists.</p>
			<p><em>hone and honero</em>⁠—wailing expressions of lament or discontent.</p>
			<p><em>hood-wink’d</em>⁠—blindfolded.</p>
			<p><em>horary</em>⁠—hourly.</p>
			<p><em>horn-mad</em>⁠—stark mad (quibble).</p>
			<p><em>horn-thumb</em>⁠—cut-purses were in the habit of wearing a horn shield on the thumb.</p>
			<p><em>horse-bread-eating</em>⁠—horses were often fed on coarse bread.</p>
			<p><em>horse-courser</em>⁠—horse-dealer.</p>
			<p><em>hospital</em>⁠—Christ’s Hospital.</p>
			<p><em>howleglas</em>⁠—Eulenspiegel, the hero of a popular German tale which relates his buffooneries and knavish tricks.</p>
			<p><em>huff</em>⁠—hectoring, arrogance.</p>
			<p><em>huff it</em>⁠—swagger.</p>
			<p><em>huisher (fr. huissier)</em>⁠—usher.</p>
			<p><em>hum</em>⁠—beer and spirits mixed together.</p>
			<p><em>humanitian</em>⁠—humanist, scholar.</p>
			<p><em>humorous</em>⁠—capricious, moody, out of humour; moist.</p>
			<p><em>humour</em>⁠—a word used in and out of season in the time of Shakespeare and Ben Jonson, and ridiculed by both.</p>
			<p><em>humours</em>⁠—manners.</p>
			<p><em>humphrey, duke</em>⁠—, those who were dinnerless spent the dinner-hour in a part of St. Paul’s where stood a monument said to be that of the duke’s; hence “dine with Duke Humphrey,” to go hungry.</p>
			<p><em>hurtless</em>⁠—harmless.</p>
			<p><em>idle</em>⁠—useless, unprofitable.</p>
			<p><em>ill-affected</em>⁠—ill-disposed.</p>
			<p><em>ill-habited</em>⁠—unhealthy.</p>
			<p><em>illustrate</em>⁠—illuminate.</p>
			<p><em>imbibition</em>⁠—saturation, steeping.</p>
			<p><em>imbrocata</em>⁠—fencing term: a thrust in tierce.</p>
			<p><em>impair</em>⁠—impairment.</p>
			<p><em>impart</em>⁠—give money.</p>
			<p><em>imparter</em>⁠—any one ready to be cheated and to part with his money.</p>
			<p><em>impeach</em>⁠—damage.</p>
			<p><em>impertinencies</em>⁠—irrelevancies.</p>
			<p><em>impertinent(ly)</em>⁠—irrelevant(ly), without reason or purpose.</p>
			<p><em>imposition</em>⁠—duty imposed by.</p>
			<p><em>impotently</em>⁠—beyond power of control.</p>
			<p><em>impress</em>⁠—money in advance.</p>
			<p><em>impulsion</em>⁠—incitement.</p>
			<p><em>in and in</em>⁠—a game played by two or three persons with four dice.</p>
			<p><em>incense</em>⁠—incite, stir up.</p>
			<p><em>inceration</em>⁠—act of covering with wax; or reducing a substance to softness of wax.</p>
			<p><em>inch</em>⁠—“to their⁠—es,” according to their stature, capabilities.</p>
			<p><em>inch-pin</em>⁠—sweet-bread.</p>
			<p><em>inconvenience</em>⁠—inconsistency, absurdity.</p>
			<p><em>incony</em>⁠—delicate, rare (used as a term of affection).</p>
			<p><em>incubee</em>⁠—incubus.</p>
			<p><em>incubus</em>⁠—evil spirit that oppresses us in sleep, nightmare.</p>
			<p><em>incurious</em>⁠—unfastidious, uncritical.</p>
			<p><em>indent</em>⁠—enter into engagement.</p>
			<p><em>indifferent</em>⁠—tolerable, passable.</p>
			<p><em>indigested</em>⁠—shapeless, chaotic.</p>
			<p><em>induce</em>⁠—introduce.</p>
			<p><em>indue</em>⁠—supply.</p>
			<p><em>inexorable</em>⁠—relentless.</p>
			<p><em>infanted</em>⁠—born, produced.</p>
			<p><em>inflame</em>⁠—augment charge.</p>
			<p><em>ingenious</em>⁠—used indiscriminantly for ingenuous; intelligent, talented.</p>
			<p><em>ingenuity</em>⁠—ingenuousness.</p>
			<p><em>ingenuous</em>⁠—generous.</p>
			<p><em>ingine</em>⁠—See Engin.</p>
			<p><em>inginer</em>⁠—engineer. (See Enginer).</p>
			<p><em>ingle, or enghle</em>⁠—bosom friend, intimate, minion.</p>
			<p><em>inhabitable</em>⁠—uninhabitable.</p>
			<p><em>injury</em>⁠—insult, affront.</p>
			<p><em>in-mate</em>⁠—resident, indwelling.</p>
			<p><em>innate</em>⁠—natural.</p>
			<p><em>innocent</em>⁠—simpleton.</p>
			<p><em>inquest</em>⁠—jury, or other official body of inquiry.</p>
			<p><em>inquisition</em>⁠—inquiry.</p>
			<p><em>instant</em>⁠—immediate.</p>
			<p><em>instrument</em>⁠—legal document.</p>
			<p><em>insure</em>⁠—assure.</p>
			<p><em>integrate</em>⁠—complete, perfect.</p>
			<p><em>intelligence</em>⁠—secret information, news.</p>
			<p><em>intend</em>⁠—note carefully, attend, give ear to, be occupied with.</p>
			<p><em>intendment</em>⁠—intention.</p>
			<p><em>intent</em>⁠—intention, wish.</p>
			<p><em>intention</em>⁠—concentration of attention or gaze.</p>
			<p><em>intentive</em>⁠—attentive.</p>
			<p><em>interessed</em>⁠—implicated.</p>
			<p><em>intrude</em>⁠—bring in forcibly or without leave.</p>
			<p><em>invincibly</em>⁠—invisibly.</p>
			<p><em>inward</em>⁠—intimate.</p>
			<p><em>irpe (uncertain)</em>⁠—“a fantastic grimace, or contortion of the body: (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>jack</em>⁠—Jack o’ the clock, automaton figure that strikes the hour; Jack-a-lent, puppet thrown at in Lent.</p>
			<p><em>jack</em>⁠—key of a virginal.</p>
			<p><em>jacob’s staff</em>⁠—an instrument for taking altitudes and distances.</p>
			<p><em>jade</em>⁠—befool.</p>
			<p><em>jealousy, jealous</em>⁠—, suspicion, suspicious.</p>
			<p><em>jerking</em>⁠—lashing.</p>
			<p><em>jew’s trump</em>⁠—Jew’s harp.</p>
			<p><em>jig</em>⁠—merry ballad or tune; a fanciful dialogue or light comic act introduced at the end or during an interlude of a play.</p>
			<p><em>joined (joint)-stool</em>⁠—folding stool.</p>
			<p><em>joll</em>⁠—jowl.</p>
			<p><em>jolthead</em>⁠—blockhead.</p>
			<p><em>jump</em>⁠—agree, tally.</p>
			<p><em>just year</em>⁠—no one was capable of the consulship until he was forty-three.</p>
			<p><em>kell</em>⁠—cocoon.</p>
			<p><em>kelly</em>⁠—an alchemist.</p>
			<p><em>kemb</em>⁠—comb.</p>
			<p><em>kemia</em>⁠—vessel for distillation.</p>
			<p><em>kibe</em>⁠—chap, sore.</p>
			<p><em>kilderkin</em>⁠—small barrel.</p>
			<p><em>kill</em>⁠—kiln.</p>
			<p><em>kind</em>⁠—nature; species; “do one’s⁠—,” act according to one’s nature.</p>
			<p><em>kirtle</em>⁠—woman’s gown of jacket and petticoat.</p>
			<p><em>kiss or drink afore me</em>⁠—“this is a familiar expression, employed when what the speaker is just about to say is anticipated by another” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>kit</em>⁠—fiddle.</p>
			<p><em>knack</em>⁠—snap, click.</p>
			<p><em>knipper-doling</em>⁠—a well-known Anabaptist.</p>
			<p><em>knitting cup</em>⁠—marriage cup.</p>
			<p><em>knocking</em>⁠—striking, weighty.</p>
			<p><em>knot</em>⁠—company, band; a sandpiper or robin snipe (Tringa canutus); flower-bed laid out in fanciful design.</p>
			<p><em>kursined, kyrsin</em>⁠—, christened.</p>
			<p><em>laboured</em>⁠—wrought with labour and care.</p>
			<p><em>lade</em>⁠—load(ed).</p>
			<p><em>lading</em>⁠—load.</p>
			<p><em>laid</em>⁠—plotted.</p>
			<p><em>lance-knight</em>⁠—Lanzknecht), a German mercenary foot-soldier.</p>
			<p><em>lap</em>⁠—fold.</p>
			<p><em>lar</em>⁠—household god.</p>
			<p><em>lard</em>⁠—garnish.</p>
			<p><em>large</em>⁠—abundant.</p>
			<p><em>larum</em>⁠—alarum, call to arms.</p>
			<p><em>lattice</em>⁠—tavern windows were furnished with lattices of various colours.</p>
			<p><em>launder</em>⁠—to wash gold in aqua regia, so as imperceptibly to extract some of it.</p>
			<p><em>lave</em>⁠—ladle, bale.</p>
			<p><em>law</em>⁠—“give⁠—,” give a start (term of chase).</p>
			<p><em>laxative</em>⁠—loose.</p>
			<p><em>lay aboard</em>⁠—run alongside generally with intent to board.</p>
			<p><em>leaguer</em>⁠—siege, or camp of besieging army.</p>
			<p><em>leasing</em>⁠—lying.</p>
			<p><em>leave</em>⁠—leave off, desist.</p>
			<p><em>leer</em>⁠—leering or “empty, hence, perhaps, leer horse, a horse without a rider; leer is an adjective meaning uncontrolled, hence ‘leer drunkards’ ” (Halliwell); according to Nares, a leer (empty) horse meant also a led horse; leeward, left.</p>
			<p><em>leese</em>⁠—lose.</p>
			<p><em>legs</em>⁠—“make⁠—,” do obeisance.</p>
			<p><em>leiger</em>⁠—resident representative.</p>
			<p><em>leigerity</em>⁠—legerdemain.</p>
			<p><em>lemma</em>⁠—subject proposed, or title of the epigram.</p>
			<p><em>lenter</em>⁠—slower.</p>
			<p><em>let</em>⁠—hinder.</p>
			<p><em>let</em>⁠—hindrance.</p>
			<p><em>level coil</em>⁠—a rough game … in which one hunted another from his seat. Hence used for any noisy riot (Halliwell).</p>
			<p><em>lewd</em>⁠—ignorant.</p>
			<p><em>leystalls</em>⁠—receptacles of filth.</p>
			<p><em>liberal</em>⁠—ample.</p>
			<p><em>lieger</em>⁠—ledger, register.</p>
			<p><em>lift(ing)</em>⁠—steal(ing); theft.</p>
			<p><em>light</em>⁠—alight.</p>
			<p><em>lightly</em>⁠—commonly, usually, often.</p>
			<p><em>like</em>⁠—please.</p>
			<p><em>likely</em>⁠—agreeable, pleasing.</p>
			<p><em>lime-hound</em>⁠—leash-, blood-hound.</p>
			<p><em>limmer</em>⁠—vile, worthless.</p>
			<p><em>lin</em>⁠—leave off.</p>
			<p>Line, “by⁠—,” by rule.</p>
			<p><em>linstock</em>⁠—staff to stick in the ground, with forked head to hold a lighted match for firing cannon.</p>
			<p><em>liquid</em>⁠—clear.</p>
			<p><em>list</em>⁠—listen, hark; like, please.</p>
			<p><em>livery</em>⁠—legal term, delivery of the possession, etc.</p>
			<p><em>logget</em>⁠—small log, stick.</p>
			<p><em>loose</em>⁠—solution; upshot, issue; release of an arrow.</p>
			<p><em>lose</em>⁠—give over, desist from; waste.</p>
			<p><em>louting</em>⁠—bowing, cringing.</p>
			<p><em>luculent</em>⁠—bright of beauty.</p>
			<p><em>ludgathians</em>⁠—dealers on Ludgate Hill.</p>
			<p><em>lurch</em>⁠—rob, cheat.</p>
			<p><em>lute</em>⁠—to close a vessel with some kind of cement.</p>
			<p><em>mack</em>⁠—unmeaning expletive.</p>
			<p><em>madge-howlet or owl</em>⁠—, barn-owl.</p>
			<p><em>maim</em>⁠—hurt, injury.</p>
			<p><em>main</em>⁠—chief concern (used as a quibble on heraldic term for “hand”).</p>
			<p><em>mainprise</em>⁠—becoming surety for a prisoner so as to procure his release.</p>
			<p><em>maintenance</em>⁠—giving aid, or abetting.</p>
			<p><em>make</em>⁠—mate.</p>
			<p><em>make, made</em>⁠—, acquaint with business, prepare(d), instruct(ed).</p>
			<p><em>mallanders</em>⁠—disease of horses.</p>
			<p><em>malt horse</em>⁠—dray horse.</p>
			<p><em>mammet</em>⁠—puppet.</p>
			<p><em>mammothrept</em>⁠—spoiled child.</p>
			<p><em>manage</em>⁠—control (term used for breaking-in horses); handling, administration.</p>
			<p><em>mango</em>⁠—slave-dealer.</p>
			<p><em>mangonise</em>⁠—polish up for sale.</p>
			<p><em>maniples</em>⁠—bundles, handfuls.</p>
			<p><em>mankind</em>⁠—masculine, like a virago.</p>
			<p><em>mankind</em>⁠—humanity.</p>
			<p><em>maple face</em>⁠—spotted face (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>marchpane</em>⁠—a confection of almonds, sugar, etc.</p>
			<p><em>mark</em>⁠—“fly to the⁠—,” “generally said of a goshawk when, having ‘put in’ a covey of partridges, she takes stand, marking the spot where they disappeared from view until the falconer arrives to put them out to her” (Harting, Bibl. Accip. Gloss. 226).</p>
			<p><em>marle</em>⁠—marvel.</p>
			<p><em>marrow-bone man</em>⁠—, one often on his knees for prayer.</p>
			<p><em>marry!</em>⁠—exclamation derived from the Virgin’s name.</p>
			<p><em>marry gip</em>⁠—“probably originated from By Mary Gipcy = St. Mary of Egypt, (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>martagan</em>⁠—Turk’s cap lily.</p>
			<p><em>maryhinchco</em>⁠—stringhalt.</p>
			<p><em>masoreth</em>⁠—Masora, correct form of the scriptural text according to Hebrew tradition.</p>
			<p><em>mass</em>⁠—abb. for master.</p>
			<p><em>maund</em>⁠—beg.</p>
			<p><em>mauther</em>⁠—girl, maid.</p>
			<p><em>mean</em>⁠—moderation.</p>
			<p><em>measure</em>⁠—dance, more especially a stately one.</p>
			<p><em>meat</em>⁠—“carry⁠—in one’s mouth,” be a source of money or entertainment.</p>
			<p><em>meath</em>⁠—metheglin.</p>
			<p><em>mechanical</em>⁠—belonging to mechanics, mean, vulgar.</p>
			<p><em>mediterraneo</em>⁠—middle aisle of St. Paul’s, a general resort for business and amusement.</p>
			<p><em>meet with</em>⁠—even with.</p>
			<p><em>melicotton</em>⁠—a late kind of peach.</p>
			<p><em>menstrue</em>⁠—solvent.</p>
			<p><em>mercat</em>⁠—market.</p>
			<p><em>merd</em>⁠—excrement.</p>
			<p><em>mere</em>⁠—undiluted; absolute, unmitigated.</p>
			<p><em>mess</em>⁠—party of four.</p>
			<p><em>metheglin</em>⁠—fermented liquor, of which one ingredient was honey.</p>
			<p><em>metoposcopy</em>⁠—study of physiognomy.</p>
			<p><em>middling gossip</em>⁠—go-between.</p>
			<p><em>migniard</em>⁠—dainty, delicate.</p>
			<p><em>mile-end</em>⁠—training-ground of the city.</p>
			<p><em>mine-men</em>⁠—sappers.</p>
			<p><em>minion</em>⁠—form of cannon.</p>
			<p><em>minsitive</em>⁠—(?) mincing, affected (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>miscellany madam</em>⁠—“a female trader in miscellaneous articles; a dealer in trinkets or ornaments of various kinds, such as kept shops in the New Exchange” (Nares).</p>
			<p><em>miscelline</em>⁠—mixed grain; medley.</p>
			<p><em>misconceit</em>⁠—misconception.</p>
			<p><em>misprise, misprision</em>⁠—, mistake, misunderstanding.</p>
			<p><em>mistake away</em>⁠—carry away as if by mistake.</p>
			<p><em>mithridate</em>⁠—an antidote against poison.</p>
			<p><em>moccinigo</em>⁠—small Venetian coin, worth about ninepence.</p>
			<p><em>modern</em>⁠—in the mode; ordinary, commonplace.</p>
			<p><em>moment</em>⁠—force or influence of value.</p>
			<p><em>montanto</em>⁠—upward stroke.</p>
			<p><em>month’s mind</em>⁠—violent desire.</p>
			<p><em>moorish</em>⁠—like a moor or waste.</p>
			<p><em>morglay</em>⁠—sword of Bevis of Southampton.</p>
			<p><em>morrice-dance</em>⁠—dance on May Day, etc., in which certain personages were represented.</p>
			<p><em>mortality</em>⁠—death.</p>
			<p><em>mort-mal</em>⁠—old sore, gangrene.</p>
			<p><em>moscadino</em>⁠—confection flavoured with musk.</p>
			<p><em>mother</em>⁠—Hysterica passio.</p>
			<p><em>motion</em>⁠—proposal, request; puppet, puppet-show; “one of the small figures on the face of a large clock which was moved by the vibration of the pendulum” (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>motion</em>⁠—suggest, propose.</p>
			<p><em>motley</em>⁠—parti-coloured dress of a fool; hence used to signify pertaining to, or like, a fool.</p>
			<p><em>motte</em>⁠—motto.</p>
			<p><em>mournival</em>⁠—set of four aces or court cards in a hand; a quartette.</p>
			<p><em>mow</em>⁠—setord hay or sheaves of grain.</p>
			<p><em>much!</em>⁠—expressive of irony and incredulity.</p>
			<p><em>muckinder</em>⁠—handkerchief.</p>
			<p><em>mule</em>⁠—“born to ride on⁠—,” judges or serjeants-at-law formerly rode on mules when going in state to Westminster (Whally).</p>
			<p><em>mullets</em>⁠—small pincers.</p>
			<p><em>mum-chance</em>⁠—game of chance, played in silence.</p>
			<p><em>mun</em>⁠—must.</p>
			<p><em>murey</em>⁠—dark crimson red.</p>
			<p><em>muscovy-glass</em>⁠—mica.</p>
			<p><em>muse</em>⁠—wonder.</p>
			<p><em>musical</em>⁠—in harmony.</p>
			<p><em>muss</em>⁠—mouse; scramble.</p>
			<p><em>myrobolane</em>⁠—foreign conserve, “a dried plum, brought from the Indies.”</p>
			<p><em>mystery</em>⁠—art, trade, profession.</p>
			<p><em>nail</em>⁠—“to the⁠—” (ad unguem), to perfection, to the very utmost.</p>
			<p><em>native</em>⁠—natural.</p>
			<p><em>neat</em>⁠—cattle.</p>
			<p><em>neat</em>⁠—smartly apparelled; unmixed; dainty.</p>
			<p><em>neatly</em>⁠—neatly finished.</p>
			<p><em>neatness</em>⁠—elegance.</p>
			<p><em>neis</em>⁠—nose, scent.</p>
			<p><em>neuf (neaf, neif)</em>⁠—fist.</p>
			<p><em>neuft</em>⁠—newt.</p>
			<p><em>niaise</em>⁠—foolish, inexperienced person.</p>
			<p><em>nice</em>⁠—fastidious, trivial, finical, scrupulous.</p>
			<p><em>niceness</em>⁠—fastidiousness.</p>
			<p><em>nick</em>⁠—exact amount; right moment; “set in the⁠—,” meaning uncertain.</p>
			<p><em>nice</em>⁠—suit, fit; hit, seize the right moment, etc., exactly hit on, hit off.</p>
			<p><em>noble</em>⁠—gold coin worth 6s. 8d.</p>
			<p><em>nocent</em>⁠—harmful.</p>
			<p><em>nil</em>⁠—not will.</p>
			<p><em>noise</em>⁠—company of musicians.</p>
			<p><em>nomentack</em>⁠—an Indian chief from Virginia.</p>
			<p><em>nones</em>⁠—nonce.</p>
			<p><em>notable</em>⁠—egregious.</p>
			<p><em>note</em>⁠—sign, token.</p>
			<p><em>nought</em>⁠—“be⁠—,” go to the devil, be hanged, etc.</p>
			<p><em>nowt-head</em>⁠—blockhead.</p>
			<p><em>number</em>⁠—rhythm.</p>
			<p><em>nupson</em>⁠—oaf, simpleton.</p>
			<p><em>oade</em>⁠—woad.</p>
			<p><em>obarni</em>⁠—preparation of mead.</p>
			<p><em>object</em>⁠—oppose; expose; interpose.</p>
			<p><em>oblatrant</em>⁠—barking, railing.</p>
			<p><em>obnoxious</em>⁠—liable, exposed; offensive.</p>
			<p><em>observance</em>⁠—homage, devoted service.</p>
			<p><em>observant</em>⁠—attentive, obsequious.</p>
			<p><em>observe</em>⁠—show deference, respect.</p>
			<p><em>observer</em>⁠—one who shows deference, or waits upon another.</p>
			<p><em>obstancy</em>⁠—legal phrase, “juridical opposition.”</p>
			<p><em>obstreperous</em>⁠—clamorous, vociferous.</p>
			<p><em>obstupefact</em>⁠—stupefied.</p>
			<p><em>odling</em>⁠—(?) “must have some relation to tricking and cheating” (Nares).</p>
			<p><em>ominous</em>⁠—deadly, fatal.</p>
			<p><em>once</em>⁠—at once; for good and all; used also for additional emphasis.</p>
			<p><em>only</em>⁠—pre-eminent, special.</p>
			<p><em>open</em>⁠—make public; expound.</p>
			<p><em>oppilation</em>⁠—obstruction.</p>
			<p><em>oppone</em>⁠—oppose.</p>
			<p><em>opposite</em>⁠—antagonist.</p>
			<p><em>oppress</em>⁠—suppress.</p>
			<p><em>originous</em>⁠—native.</p>
			<p><em>ort</em>⁠—remnant, scrap.</p>
			<p><em>out</em>⁠—“to be⁠—,” to have forgotten one’s part; not at one with each other.</p>
			<p><em>outcry</em>⁠—sale by auction.</p>
			<p><em>outrecuidance</em>⁠—arrogance, presumption.</p>
			<p><em>outspeak</em>⁠—speak more than.</p>
			<p><em>overparted</em>⁠—given too difficult a part to play.</p>
			<p><em>owlspiegel</em>⁠—See Howleglass.</p>
			<p><em>oyez! (o yes!)</em>⁠—hear ye! call of the public crier when about to make a proclamation.</p>
			<p><em>packing penny</em>⁠—“give a⁠—,” dismiss, send packing.</p>
			<p><em>pad</em>⁠—highway.</p>
			<p><em>pad-horse</em>⁠—road-horse.</p>
			<p><em>pained (paned) slops</em>⁠—full breeches made of strips of different colour and material.</p>
			<p><em>painful</em>⁠—diligent, painstaking.</p>
			<p><em>paint</em>⁠—blush.</p>
			<p><em>palinode</em>⁠—ode of recantation.</p>
			<p><em>pall</em>⁠—weaken, dim, make stale.</p>
			<p><em>palm</em>⁠—triumph.</p>
			<p><em>pan</em>⁠—skirt of dress or coat.</p>
			<p><em>pannel</em>⁠—pad, or rough kind of saddle.</p>
			<p><em>pannier-ally</em>⁠—inhabited by tripe-sellers.</p>
			<p><em>pannier-man</em>⁠—hawker; a man employed about the inns of court to bring in provisions, set the table, etc.</p>
			<p><em>pantofle</em>⁠—indoor shoe, slipper.</p>
			<p><em>paramentos</em>⁠—fine trappings.</p>
			<p><em>paranomasie</em>⁠—a play upon words.</p>
			<p><em>parantory</em>⁠—(?) peremptory.</p>
			<p><em>parcel</em>⁠—particle, fragment (used contemptuously); article.</p>
			<p><em>parcel</em>⁠—part, partly.</p>
			<p><em>parcel-poet</em>⁠—poetaster.</p>
			<p><em>parerga</em>⁠—subordinate matters.</p>
			<p><em>parget</em>⁠—to paint or plaster the face.</p>
			<p><em>parle</em>⁠—parley.</p>
			<p><em>parlous</em>⁠—clever, shrewd.</p>
			<p><em>part</em>⁠—apportion.</p>
			<p><em>partake</em>⁠—participate in.</p>
			<p><em>parted</em>⁠—endowed, talented.</p>
			<p><em>particular</em>⁠—individual person.</p>
			<p><em>partizan</em>⁠—kind of halberd.</p>
			<p><em>partrich</em>⁠—partridge.</p>
			<p><em>parts</em>⁠—qualities, endowments.</p>
			<p><em>pash</em>⁠—dash, smash.</p>
			<p><em>pass</em>⁠—care, trouble oneself.</p>
			<p><em>passado</em>⁠—fencing term: a thrust.</p>
			<p><em>passage</em>⁠—game at dice.</p>
			<p><em>passingly</em>⁠—exceedingly.</p>
			<p><em>passion</em>⁠—effect caused by external agency.</p>
			<p><em>passion</em>⁠—“in⁠—,” in so melancholy a tone, so pathetically.</p>
			<p><em>patoun</em>⁠—(?) Fr. Paton, pellet of dough; perhaps the “moulding of the tobacco … for the pipe” (Gifford); (?) variant of Petun, South American name of tobacco.</p>
			<p><em>patrico</em>⁠—the recorder, priest, orator of strolling beggars or gipsies.</p>
			<p><em>patten</em>⁠—shoe with wooden sole; “go⁠—,” keep step with, accompany.</p>
			<p><em>pauca verba</em>⁠—few words.</p>
			<p><em>pavin</em>⁠—a stately dance.</p>
			<p><em>peace</em>⁠—“with my master’s⁠—,” by leave, favour.</p>
			<p><em>peculiar</em>⁠—individual, single.</p>
			<p><em>pedant</em>⁠—teacher of the languages.</p>
			<p><em>peel</em>⁠—baker’s shovel.</p>
			<p><em>peep</em>⁠—speak in a small or shrill voice.</p>
			<p><em>peevish(ly)</em>⁠—foolish(ly), capricious(ly); childish(ly).</p>
			<p><em>pelican</em>⁠—a retort fitted with tube or tubes, for continuous distillation.</p>
			<p><em>pencil</em>⁠—small tuft of hair.</p>
			<p><em>perdue</em>⁠—soldier accustomed to hazardous service.</p>
			<p><em>peremptory</em>⁠—resolute, bold; imperious; thorough, utter, absolute(ly).</p>
			<p><em>perimeter</em>⁠—circumference of a figure.</p>
			<p><em>period</em>⁠—limit, end.</p>
			<p><em>perk</em>⁠—perk up.</p>
			<p><em>perpetuana</em>⁠—“this seems to be that glossy kind of stuff now called everlasting, and anciently worn by serjeants and other city officers” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>perspective</em>⁠—a view, scene or scenery; an optical device which gave a distortion to the picture unless seen from a particular point; a relief, modelled to produce an optical illusion.</p>
			<p><em>perspicil</em>⁠—optic glass.</p>
			<p><em>perstringe</em>⁠—criticise, censure.</p>
			<p><em>persuade</em>⁠—inculcate, commend.</p>
			<p><em>persway</em>⁠—mitigate.</p>
			<p><em>pertinacy</em>⁠—pertinacity.</p>
			<p><em>pestling</em>⁠—pounding, pulverising, like a pestle.</p>
			<p><em>petasus</em>⁠—broad-brimmed hat or winged cap worn by Mercury.</p>
			<p><em>petitionary</em>⁠—supplicatory.</p>
			<p><em>petronel</em>⁠—a kind of carbine or light gun carried by horsemen.</p>
			<p><em>petulant</em>⁠—pert, insolent.</p>
			<p><em>phere</em>⁠—See Fere.</p>
			<p><em>phlegma</em>⁠—watery distilled liquor (old chem. “water”).</p>
			<p><em>phrenetic</em>⁠—madman.</p>
			<p><em>picardil</em>⁠—stiff upright collar fastened on to the coat (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>pict-hatch</em>⁠—disreputable quarter of London.</p>
			<p><em>piece</em>⁠—person, used for woman or girl; a gold coin worth in Jonson’s time 20s. or 22s.</p>
			<p><em>pieces of eight</em>⁠—Spanish coin: piastre equal to eight reals.</p>
			<p><em>pied</em>⁠—variegated.</p>
			<p><em>pie-poudres</em>⁠—Fr. pied-poudreux, dusty-foot), court held at fairs to administer justice to itinerant vendors and buyers.</p>
			<p><em>pilcher</em>⁠—term of contempt; one who wore a buff or leather jerkin, as did the serjeants of the counter; a pilferer.</p>
			<p><em>piled</em>⁠—pilled, peeled, bald.</p>
			<p><em>pill’d</em>⁠—polled, fleeced.</p>
			<p><em>pimlico</em>⁠—“sometimes spoken of as a person⁠—perhaps master of a house famous for a particular ale” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>pine</em>⁠—afflict, distress.</p>
			<p><em>pink</em>⁠—stab with a weapon; pierce or cut in scallops for ornament.</p>
			<p><em>pinnace</em>⁠—a go-between in infamous sense.</p>
			<p><em>pismire</em>⁠—ant.</p>
			<p><em>pistolet</em>⁠—gold coin, worth about 6s.</p>
			<p><em>pitch</em>⁠—height of a bird of prey’s flight.</p>
			<p><em>plague</em>⁠—punishment, torment.</p>
			<p><em>plain</em>⁠—lament.</p>
			<p><em>plain song</em>⁠—simple melody.</p>
			<p><em>plaise</em>⁠—plaice.</p>
			<p><em>planet</em>⁠—“struck with a⁠—,” planets were supposed to have powers of blasting or exercising secret influences.</p>
			<p><em>plausible</em>⁠—pleasing.</p>
			<p><em>plausibly</em>⁠—approvingly.</p>
			<p><em>plot</em>⁠—plan.</p>
			<p><em>ply</em>⁠—apply oneself to.</p>
			<p><em>poesie</em>⁠—posy, motto inside a ring.</p>
			<p><em>point in his device</em>⁠—exact in every particular.</p>
			<p><em>points</em>⁠—tagged laces or cords for fastening the breeches to the doublet.</p>
			<p><em>point-trusser</em>⁠—one who trussed (tied) his master’s points (q.v.).</p>
			<p><em>poise</em>⁠—weigh, balance.</p>
			<p><em>poking-stick</em>⁠—stick used for setting the plaits of ruffs.</p>
			<p><em>politic</em>⁠—politician.</p>
			<p><em>politic</em>⁠—judicious, prudent, political.</p>
			<p><em>politician</em>⁠—plotter, intriguer.</p>
			<p><em>poll</em>⁠—strip, plunder, gain by extortion.</p>
			<p><em>pomander</em>⁠—ball of perfume, worn or hung about the person to prevent infection, or for foppery.</p>
			<p><em>pommado</em>⁠—vaulting on a horse without the aid of stirrups.</p>
			<p><em>pontic</em>⁠—sour.</p>
			<p><em>popular</em>⁠—vulgar, of the populace.</p>
			<p><em>populous</em>⁠—numerous.</p>
			<p><em>port</em>⁠—gate; print of a deer’s foot.</p>
			<p><em>port</em>⁠—transport.</p>
			<p><em>portague</em>⁠—Portuguese gold coin, worth over 3 or 4 pounds.</p>
			<p><em>portcullis</em>⁠—“⁠—of coin,” some old coins have a portcullis stamped on their reverse (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>portent</em>⁠—marvel, prodigy; sinister omen.</p>
			<p><em>portentous</em>⁠—prophesying evil, threatening.</p>
			<p><em>porter</em>⁠—references appear “to allude to Parsons, the king’s porter, who was … near seven feet high” (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>possess</em>⁠—inform, acquaint.</p>
			<p><em>post and pair</em>⁠—a game at cards.</p>
			<p><em>posy</em>⁠—motto. (See Poesie).</p>
			<p><em>potch</em>⁠—poach.</p>
			<p><em>poult-foot</em>⁠—club-foot.</p>
			<p><em>pounce</em>⁠—claw, talon.</p>
			<p><em>practice</em>⁠—intrigue, concerted plot.</p>
			<p><em>practise</em>⁠—plot, conspire.</p>
			<p><em>pragmatic</em>⁠—an expert, agent.</p>
			<p><em>pragmatic</em>⁠—officious, conceited, meddling.</p>
			<p><em>precedent</em>⁠—record of proceedings.</p>
			<p><em>precept</em>⁠—warrant, summons.</p>
			<p><em>precisian(ism)</em>⁠—Puritan(ism), preciseness.</p>
			<p><em>prefer</em>⁠—recommend.</p>
			<p><em>presence</em>⁠—presence chamber.</p>
			<p><em>present(ly)</em>⁠—immediate(ly), without delay; at the present time; actually.</p>
			<p><em>press</em>⁠—force into service.</p>
			<p><em>prest</em>⁠—ready.</p>
			<p><em>pretend</em>⁠—assert, allege.</p>
			<p><em>prevent</em>⁠—anticipate.</p>
			<p><em>price</em>⁠—worth, excellence.</p>
			<p><em>prick</em>⁠—point, dot used in the writing of Hebrew and other languages.</p>
			<p><em>prick</em>⁠—prick out, mark off, select; trace, track; “⁠—away,” make off with speed.</p>
			<p><em>primero</em>⁠—game of cards.</p>
			<p><em>princox</em>⁠—pert boy.</p>
			<p><em>print</em>⁠—“in⁠—,” to the letter, exactly.</p>
			<p><em>pristinate</em>⁠—former.</p>
			<p><em>private</em>⁠—private interests.</p>
			<p><em>private</em>⁠—privy, intimate.</p>
			<p><em>proclive</em>⁠—prone to.</p>
			<p><em>prodigious</em>⁠—monstrous, unnatural.</p>
			<p><em>prodigy</em>⁠—monster.</p>
			<p><em>produced</em>⁠—prolonged.</p>
			<p><em>profess</em>⁠—pretend.</p>
			<p><em>projection</em>⁠—the throwing of the “powder of projection” into the crucible to turn the melted metal into gold or silver.</p>
			<p><em>prolate</em>⁠—pronounce drawlingly.</p>
			<p><em>proper</em>⁠—of good appearance, handsome; own, particular.</p>
			<p><em>properties</em>⁠—stage necessaries.</p>
			<p><em>property</em>⁠—duty; tool.</p>
			<p><em>prorumped</em>⁠—burst out.</p>
			<p><em>protest</em>⁠—vow, proclaim (an affected word of that time); formally declare non-payment, etc., of bill of exchange; fig. failure of personal credit, etc.</p>
			<p><em>provant</em>⁠—soldier’s allowance⁠—hence, of common make.</p>
			<p><em>provide</em>⁠—foresee.</p>
			<p><em>providence</em>⁠—foresight, prudence.</p>
			<p><em>publication</em>⁠—making a thing public of common property (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>puckfist</em>⁠—puff-ball; insipid, insignificant, boasting fellow.</p>
			<p><em>puff-wing</em>⁠—shoulder puff.</p>
			<p><em>puisne</em>⁠—judge of inferior rank, a junior.</p>
			<p><em>pulchritude</em>⁠—beauty.</p>
			<p><em>pump</em>⁠—shoe.</p>
			<p><em>pungent</em>⁠—piercing.</p>
			<p><em>punto</em>⁠—point, hit.</p>
			<p><em>purcept</em>⁠—precept, warrant.</p>
			<p><em>pure</em>⁠—fine, capital, excellent.</p>
			<p><em>purely</em>⁠—perfectly, utterly.</p>
			<p><em>purl</em>⁠—pleat or fold of a ruff.</p>
			<p><em>purse-net</em>⁠—net of which the mouth is drawn together with a string.</p>
			<p><em>pursuivant</em>⁠—state messenger who summoned the persecuted seminaries; warrant officer.</p>
			<p><em>pursy, pursiness</em>⁠—, shortwinded(ness).</p>
			<p><em>put</em>⁠—make a push, exert yourself (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>put off</em>⁠—excuse, shift.</p>
			<p><em>put on</em>⁠—incite, encourage; proceed with, take in hand, try.</p>
			<p><em>quacksalver</em>⁠—quack.</p>
			<p><em>quaint</em>⁠—elegant, elaborated, ingenious, clever.</p>
			<p><em>quar</em>⁠—quarry.</p>
			<p><em>quarried</em>⁠—seized, or fed upon, as prey.</p>
			<p><em>quean</em>⁠—hussy, jade.</p>
			<p><em>queasy</em>⁠—hazardous, delicate.</p>
			<p><em>quell</em>⁠—kill, destroy.</p>
			<p><em>quest</em>⁠—request; inquiry.</p>
			<p><em>question</em>⁠—decision by force of arms.</p>
			<p><em>questman</em>⁠—one appointed to make official inquiry.</p>
			<p><em>quib, quiblin</em>⁠—, quibble, quip.</p>
			<p><em>quick</em>⁠—the living.</p>
			<p><em>quiddit</em>⁠—quiddity, legal subtlety.</p>
			<p><em>quirk</em>⁠—clever turn or trick.</p>
			<p><em>quit</em>⁠—requite, repay; acquit, absolve; rid; forsake, leave.</p>
			<p><em>quitter-bone</em>⁠—disease of horses.</p>
			<p><em>quodling</em>⁠—codling.</p>
			<p><em>quoit</em>⁠—throw like a quoit, chuck.</p>
			<p><em>quote</em>⁠—take note, observe, write down.</p>
			<p><em>rack</em>⁠—neck of mutton or pork (Halliwell).</p>
			<p><em>rake up</em>⁠—cover over.</p>
			<p><em>ramp</em>⁠—rear, as a lion, etc.</p>
			<p><em>rapt</em>⁠—carry away.</p>
			<p><em>rapt</em>⁠—enraptured.</p>
			<p><em>rascal</em>⁠—young or inferior deer.</p>
			<p><em>rash</em>⁠—strike with a glancing oblique blow, as a boar with its tusk.</p>
			<p><em>ratsey, gomaliel</em>⁠—, a famous highwayman.</p>
			<p><em>raven</em>⁠—devour.</p>
			<p><em>reach</em>⁠—understand.</p>
			<p><em>real</em>⁠—regal.</p>
			<p><em>rebatu</em>⁠—ruff, turned-down collar.</p>
			<p><em>rector, rectress</em>⁠—, director, governor.</p>
			<p><em>redargue</em>⁠—confute.</p>
			<p><em>reduce</em>⁠—bring back.</p>
			<p><em>reed</em>⁠—rede, counsel, advice.</p>
			<p><em>reel</em>⁠—run riot.</p>
			<p><em>refel</em>⁠—refute.</p>
			<p><em>reformadoes</em>⁠—disgraced or disbanded soldiers.</p>
			<p><em>regiment</em>⁠—government.</p>
			<p><em>regression</em>⁠—return.</p>
			<p><em>regular (“tale of a tub”)</em>⁠—regular noun (quibble) (N.E.D.).</p>
			<p><em>religion</em>⁠—“make⁠—of,” make a point of, scruple of.</p>
			<p><em>relish</em>⁠—savour.</p>
			<p><em>remnant</em>⁠—scrap of quotation.</p>
			<p><em>remora</em>⁠—species of fish.</p>
			<p><em>render</em>⁠—depict, exhibit, show.</p>
			<p><em>repair</em>⁠—reinstate.</p>
			<p><em>repetition</em>⁠—recital, narration.</p>
			<p><em>reremouse</em>⁠—bat.</p>
			<p><em>resiant</em>⁠—resident.</p>
			<p><em>residence</em>⁠—sediment.</p>
			<p><em>resolution</em>⁠—judgment, decision.</p>
			<p><em>resolve</em>⁠—inform; assure; prepare, make up one’s mind; dissolve; come to a decision, be convinced; relax, set at ease.</p>
			<p><em>respective</em>⁠—worthy of respect; regardful, discriminative.</p>
			<p><em>respectively</em>⁠—with reverence.</p>
			<p><em>respectless</em>⁠—regardless.</p>
			<p><em>respire</em>⁠—exhale; inhale.</p>
			<p><em>responsible</em>⁠—correspondent.</p>
			<p><em>rest</em>⁠—musket-rest.</p>
			<p><em>rest</em>⁠—“set up one’s⁠—,” venture one’s all, one’s last stake (from game of primero).</p>
			<p><em>rest</em>⁠—arrest.</p>
			<p><em>restive, resty</em>⁠—, dull, inactive.</p>
			<p><em>retchless(ness)</em>⁠—reckless(ness).</p>
			<p><em>retire</em>⁠—cause to retire.</p>
			<p><em>retricato</em>⁠—fencing term.</p>
			<p><em>retrieve</em>⁠—rediscovery of game once sprung.</p>
			<p><em>returns</em>⁠—ventures sent abroad, for the safe return of which so much money is received.</p>
			<p><em>reverberate</em>⁠—dissolve or blend by reflected heat.</p>
			<p><em>reverse, reverso</em>⁠—, back-handed thrust, etc., in fencing.</p>
			<p><em>revise</em>⁠—reconsider a sentence.</p>
			<p><em>rheum</em>⁠—spleen, caprice.</p>
			<p><em>ribibe</em>⁠—abusive term for an old woman.</p>
			<p><em>rid</em>⁠—destroy, do away with.</p>
			<p><em>rifling</em>⁠—raffling, dicing.</p>
			<p><em>ring</em>⁠—“cracked within the⁠—,” coins so cracked were unfit for currency.</p>
			<p><em>risse</em>⁠—risen, rose.</p>
			<p><em>rivelled</em>⁠—wrinkled.</p>
			<p><em>roarer</em>⁠—swaggerer.</p>
			<p><em>rochet</em>⁠—fish of the gurnet kind.</p>
			<p><em>rock</em>⁠—distaff.</p>
			<p><em>rodomontado</em>⁠—braggadocio.</p>
			<p><em>rogue</em>⁠—vagrant, vagabond.</p>
			<p><em>rondel</em>⁠—“a round mark in the score of a public-house” (Nares); roundel.</p>
			<p><em>rook</em>⁠—sharper; fool, dupe.</p>
			<p><em>rosaker</em>⁠—similar to ratsbane.</p>
			<p><em>rosa-solis</em>⁠—a spiced spirituous liquor.</p>
			<p><em>roses</em>⁠—rosettes.</p>
			<p><em>round</em>⁠—“gentlemen of the⁠—,” officers of inferior rank.</p>
			<p><em>round trunks</em>⁠—trunk hose, short loose breeches reaching almost or quite to the knees.</p>
			<p><em>rouse</em>⁠—carouse, bumper.</p>
			<p><em>rover</em>⁠—arrow used for shooting at a random mark at uncertain distance.</p>
			<p><em>rowly-powly</em>⁠—roly-poly.</p>
			<p><em>rude, rudeness</em>⁠—, unpolished, rough(ness), coarse(ness).</p>
			<p><em>ruffle</em>⁠—flaunt, swagger.</p>
			<p><em>rug</em>⁠—coarse frieze.</p>
			<p><em>rug-gowns</em>⁠—gown made of rug.</p>
			<p><em>rush</em>⁠—reference to rushes with which the floors were then strewn.</p>
			<p><em>rusher</em>⁠—one who strewed the floor with rushes.</p>
			<p><em>russet</em>⁠—homespun cloth of neutral or reddish-brown colour.</p>
			<p><em>sack</em>⁠—loose, flowing gown.</p>
			<p><em>sadly</em>⁠—seriously, with gravity.</p>
			<p><em>sad(ness)</em>⁠—sober, serious(ness).</p>
			<p><em>saffi</em>⁠—bailiffs.</p>
			<p><em>st. thomas a waterings</em>⁠—place in Surrey where criminals were executed.</p>
			<p><em>saker</em>⁠—small piece of ordnance.</p>
			<p><em>salt</em>⁠—leap.</p>
			<p><em>salt</em>⁠—lascivious.</p>
			<p><em>sampsuchine</em>⁠—sweet marjoram.</p>
			<p><em>saraband</em>⁠—a slow dance.</p>
			<p><em>saturnals</em>⁠—began December 17.</p>
			<p><em>sauciness</em>⁠—presumption, insolence.</p>
			<p><em>saucy</em>⁠—bold, impudent, wanton.</p>
			<p><em>sauna (lat.)</em>⁠—a gesture of contempt.</p>
			<p><em>savour</em>⁠—perceive; gratify, please; to partake of the nature.</p>
			<p><em>say</em>⁠—sample.</p>
			<p><em>say</em>⁠—assay, try.</p>
			<p><em>scald</em>⁠—word of contempt, implying dirt and disease.</p>
			<p><em>scallion</em>⁠—shalot, small onion.</p>
			<p><em>scanderbag</em>⁠—“name which the Turks (in allusion to Alexander the Great) gave to the brave Castriot, chief of Albania, with whom they had continual wars. His romantic life had just been translated” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>scape</em>⁠—escape.</p>
			<p><em>scarab</em>⁠—beetle.</p>
			<p><em>scartoccio</em>⁠—fold of paper, cover, cartouch, cartridge.</p>
			<p><em>sconce</em>⁠—head.</p>
			<p><em>scope</em>⁠—aim.</p>
			<p><em>scot and lot</em>⁠—tax, contribution (formerly a parish assessment).</p>
			<p><em>scotomy</em>⁠—dizziness in the head.</p>
			<p><em>scour</em>⁠—purge.</p>
			<p><em>scourse</em>⁠—deal, swap.</p>
			<p><em>scratches</em>⁠—disease of horses.</p>
			<p><em>scroyle</em>⁠—mean, rascally fellow.</p>
			<p><em>scruple</em>⁠—doubt.</p>
			<p><em>seal</em>⁠—put hand to the giving up of property or rights.</p>
			<p><em>sealed</em>⁠—stamped as genuine.</p>
			<p><em>seam-rent</em>⁠—ragged.</p>
			<p><em>seaming laces</em>⁠—insertion or edging.</p>
			<p><em>sear up</em>⁠—close by searing, burning.</p>
			<p><em>searced</em>⁠—sifted.</p>
			<p><em>secretary</em>⁠—able to keep a secret.</p>
			<p><em>secular</em>⁠—worldly, ordinary, commonplace.</p>
			<p><em>secure</em>⁠—confident.</p>
			<p><em>seelie</em>⁠—happy, blest.</p>
			<p><em>seisin</em>⁠—legal term: possession.</p>
			<p><em>sellary</em>⁠—lewd person.</p>
			<p><em>semblably</em>⁠—similarly.</p>
			<p><em>seminary</em>⁠—a Romish priest educated in a foreign seminary.</p>
			<p><em>senseless</em>⁠—insensible, without sense or feeling.</p>
			<p><em>sensibly</em>⁠—perceptibly.</p>
			<p><em>sensive</em>⁠—sensitive.</p>
			<p><em>sensual</em>⁠—pertaining to the physical or material.</p>
			<p><em>serene</em>⁠—harmful dew of evening.</p>
			<p><em>sericon</em>⁠—red tincture.</p>
			<p><em>servant</em>⁠—lover.</p>
			<p><em>services</em>⁠—doughty deeds of arms.</p>
			<p><em>sesterce</em>⁠—Roman copper coin.</p>
			<p><em>set</em>⁠—stake, wager.</p>
			<p><em>set up</em>⁠—drill.</p>
			<p><em>sets</em>⁠—deep plaits of the ruff.</p>
			<p><em>sewer</em>⁠—officer who served up the feast, and brought water for the hands of the guests.</p>
			<p><em>shape</em>⁠—a suit by way of disguise.</p>
			<p><em>shift</em>⁠—fraud, dodge.</p>
			<p><em>shifter</em>⁠—cheat.</p>
			<p><em>shittle</em>⁠—shuttle; “shittle-cock,” shuttlecock.</p>
			<p><em>shot</em>⁠—tavern reckoning.</p>
			<p><em>shot-clog</em>⁠—one only tolerated because he paid the shot (reckoning) for the rest.</p>
			<p><em>shot-free</em>⁠—scot-free, not having to pay.</p>
			<p><em>shove-groat</em>⁠—low kind of gambling amusement, perhaps somewhat of the nature of pitch and toss.</p>
			<p><em>shot-sharks</em>⁠—drawers.</p>
			<p><em>shrewd</em>⁠—mischievous, malicious, curst.</p>
			<p><em>shrewdly</em>⁠—keenly, in a high degree.</p>
			<p><em>shrive</em>⁠—sheriff; posts were set up before his door for proclamations, or to indicate his residence.</p>
			<p><em>shroving</em>⁠—Shrovetide, season of merriment.</p>
			<p><em>sigilla</em>⁠—seal, mark.</p>
			<p><em>silenced brethern, ministers</em>⁠—, those of the Church or Nonconformists who had been silenced, deprived, etc.</p>
			<p><em>silly</em>⁠—simple, harmless.</p>
			<p><em>simple</em>⁠—silly, witless; plain, true.</p>
			<p><em>simples</em>⁠—herbs.</p>
			<p><em>single</em>⁠—term of chase, signifying when the hunted stag is separated from the herd, or forced to break covert.</p>
			<p><em>single</em>⁠—weak, silly.</p>
			<p><em>single-money</em>⁠—small change.</p>
			<p><em>singular</em>⁠—unique, supreme.</p>
			<p><em>si-quis</em>⁠—bill, advertisement.</p>
			<p><em>skeldring</em>⁠—getting money under false pretences; swindling.</p>
			<p><em>skill</em>⁠—“it⁠—s not,” matters not.</p>
			<p><em>skink(er)</em>⁠—pour, draw(er), tapster.</p>
			<p><em>skirt</em>⁠—tail.</p>
			<p><em>sleek</em>⁠—smooth.</p>
			<p><em>slice</em>⁠—fire shovel or pan (dial.).</p>
			<p><em>slick</em>⁠—sleek, smooth.</p>
			<p><em>’slid, ’slight, ’sprecious</em>⁠—irreverent oaths.</p>
			<p><em>slight</em>⁠—sleight, cunning, cleverness; trick.</p>
			<p><em>slip</em>⁠—counterfeit coin, bastard.</p>
			<p><em>slippery</em>⁠—polished and shining.</p>
			<p><em>slops</em>⁠—large loose breeches.</p>
			<p><em>slot</em>⁠—print of a stag’s foot.</p>
			<p><em>slur</em>⁠—put a slur on; cheat (by sliding a die in some way).</p>
			<p><em>smelt</em>⁠—gull, simpleton.</p>
			<p><em>snorle</em>⁠—“perhaps snarl, as Puppy is addressed” (Cunningham).</p>
			<p><em>snotterie</em>⁠—filth.</p>
			<p><em>snuff</em>⁠—anger, resentment; “take in⁠—,” take offence at.</p>
			<p><em>snuffers</em>⁠—small open silver dishes for holding snuff, or receptacle for placing snuffers in (Halliwell).</p>
			<p><em>sock</em>⁠—shoe worn by comic actors.</p>
			<p><em>sod</em>⁠—seethe.</p>
			<p><em>soggy</em>⁠—soaked, sodden.</p>
			<p><em>soil</em>⁠—“take⁠—,” said of a hunted stag when he takes to the water for safety.</p>
			<p><em>sol</em>⁠—sou.</p>
			<p><em>soldadoes</em>⁠—soldiers.</p>
			<p><em>solicit</em>⁠—rouse, excite to action.</p>
			<p><em>sooth</em>⁠—flattery, cajolery.</p>
			<p><em>soothe</em>⁠—flatter, humour.</p>
			<p><em>sophisticate</em>⁠—adulterate.</p>
			<p><em>sort</em>⁠—company, party; rank, degree.</p>
			<p><em>sort</em>⁠—suit, fit; select.</p>
			<p><em>souse</em>⁠—ear.</p>
			<p><em>soused (“devil is an ass”)</em>⁠—fol. read “sou’t,” which Dyce interprets as “a variety of the spelling of “shu’d”: to “shu” is to scare a bird away.” (See his “Webster,” page 350).</p>
			<p><em>sowter</em>⁠—cobbler.</p>
			<p><em>spagyrica</em>⁠—chemistry according to the teachings of Paracelsus.</p>
			<p><em>spar</em>⁠—bar.</p>
			<p><em>speak</em>⁠—make known, proclaim.</p>
			<p><em>speculation</em>⁠—power of sight.</p>
			<p><em>sped</em>⁠—to have fared well, prospered.</p>
			<p><em>speece</em>⁠—species.</p>
			<p><em>spight</em>⁠—anger, rancour.</p>
			<p><em>spinner</em>⁠—spider.</p>
			<p><em>spinstry</em>⁠—lewd person.</p>
			<p><em>spittle</em>⁠—hospital, lazar-house.</p>
			<p><em>spleen</em>⁠—considered the seat of the emotions.</p>
			<p><em>spleen</em>⁠—caprice, humour, mood.</p>
			<p><em>sprunt</em>⁠—spruce.</p>
			<p><em>spurge</em>⁠—foam.</p>
			<p><em>spur-ryal</em>⁠—gold coin worth 15s.</p>
			<p><em>squire</em>⁠—square, measure; “by the⁠—,” exactly.</p>
			<p><em>staggering</em>⁠—wavering, hesitating.</p>
			<p><em>stain</em>⁠—disparagement, disgrace.</p>
			<p><em>stale</em>⁠—decoy, or cover, stalking-horse.</p>
			<p><em>stale</em>⁠—make cheap, common.</p>
			<p><em>stalk</em>⁠—approach stealthily or under cover.</p>
			<p><em>stall</em>⁠—forestall.</p>
			<p><em>standard</em>⁠—suit.</p>
			<p><em>staple</em>⁠—market, emporium.</p>
			<p><em>stark</em>⁠—downright.</p>
			<p><em>starting-holes</em>⁠—loopholes of escape.</p>
			<p><em>state</em>⁠—dignity; canopied chair of state; estate.</p>
			<p><em>statuminate</em>⁠—support vines by poles or stakes; used by Pliny (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>stay</em>⁠—gag.</p>
			<p><em>stay</em>⁠—await; detain.</p>
			<p><em>stickler</em>⁠—second or umpire.</p>
			<p><em>stigmatise</em>⁠—mark, brand.</p>
			<p><em>still</em>⁠—continual(ly), constant(ly).</p>
			<p><em>stinkard</em>⁠—stinking fellow.</p>
			<p><em>stint</em>⁠—stop.</p>
			<p><em>stiptic</em>⁠—astringent.</p>
			<p><em>stoccata</em>⁠—thrust in fencing.</p>
			<p><em>stock-fish</em>⁠—salted and dried fish.</p>
			<p><em>stomach</em>⁠—pride, valour.</p>
			<p><em>stomach</em>⁠—resent.</p>
			<p><em>stoop</em>⁠—swoop down as a hawk.</p>
			<p><em>stop</em>⁠—fill, stuff.</p>
			<p><em>stopple</em>⁠—stopper.</p>
			<p><em>stote</em>⁠—stoat, weasel.</p>
			<p><em>stoup</em>⁠—stoop, swoop=bow.</p>
			<p><em>straight</em>⁠—straightway.</p>
			<p><em>stramazoun (ital. stramazzone)</em>⁠—a down blow, as opposed to the thrust.</p>
			<p><em>strange</em>⁠—like a stranger, unfamiliar.</p>
			<p><em>strangeness</em>⁠—distance of behaviour.</p>
			<p><em>streights, or bermudas</em>⁠—labyrinth of alleys and courts in the Strand.</p>
			<p><em>strigonium</em>⁠—Grau in Hungary, taken from the Turks in 1597.</p>
			<p><em>strike</em>⁠—balance (accounts).</p>
			<p><em>stringhalt</em>⁠—disease of horses.</p>
			<p><em>stroker</em>⁠—smoother, flatterer.</p>
			<p><em>strook</em>⁠—p.p. of “strike.”</p>
			<p><em>strummel-patched</em>⁠—strummel is glossed in dialect dicts. as “a long, loose and dishevelled head of hair.”</p>
			<p><em>studies</em>⁠—studious efforts.</p>
			<p><em>style</em>⁠—title; pointed instrument used for writing on wax tablets.</p>
			<p><em>subtle</em>⁠—fine, delicate, thin; smooth, soft.</p>
			<p><em>subtlety (subtility)</em>⁠—subtle device.</p>
			<p><em>suburb</em>⁠—connected with loose living.</p>
			<p><em>succubae</em>⁠—demons in form of women.</p>
			<p><em>suck</em>⁠—extract money from.</p>
			<p><em>sufferance</em>⁠—suffering.</p>
			<p><em>summed</em>⁠—term of falconry: with full-grown plumage.</p>
			<p><em>super-negulum</em>⁠—topers turned the cup bottom up when it was empty.</p>
			<p><em>superstitious</em>⁠—over-scrupulous.</p>
			<p><em>supple</em>⁠—to make pliant.</p>
			<p><em>surbate</em>⁠—make sore with walking.</p>
			<p><em>surcease</em>⁠—cease.</p>
			<p><em>sur-reverence</em>⁠—save your reverence.</p>
			<p><em>survise</em>⁠—peruse.</p>
			<p><em>suscitability</em>⁠—excitability.</p>
			<p><em>suspect</em>⁠—suspicion.</p>
			<p><em>suspend</em>⁠—suspect.</p>
			<p><em>suspended</em>⁠—held over for the present.</p>
			<p><em>sutler</em>⁠—victualler.</p>
			<p><em>swad</em>⁠—clown, boor.</p>
			<p><em>swath bands</em>⁠—swaddling clothes.</p>
			<p><em>swinge</em>⁠—beat.</p>
			<p><em>taberd</em>⁠—emblazoned mantle or tunic worn by knights and heralds.</p>
			<p><em>table(s)</em>⁠—“pair of⁠—,” tablets, note-book.</p>
			<p><em>tabor</em>⁠—small drum.</p>
			<p><em>tabret</em>⁠—tabor.</p>
			<p><em>taffeta</em>⁠—silk; “tuft-taffeta,” a more costly silken fabric.</p>
			<p><em>taint</em>⁠—“⁠—a staff,” break a lance at tilting in an unscientific or dishonourable manner.</p>
			<p><em>take in</em>⁠—capture, subdue.</p>
			<p><em>take me with you</em>⁠—let me understand you.</p>
			<p><em>take up</em>⁠—obtain on credit, borrow.</p>
			<p><em>talent</em>⁠—sum or weight of Greek currency.</p>
			<p><em>tall</em>⁠—stout, brave.</p>
			<p><em>tankard-bearers</em>⁠—men employed to fetch water from the conduits.</p>
			<p><em>tarleton</em>⁠—celebrated comedian and jester.</p>
			<p><em>tartarous</em>⁠—like a Tartar.</p>
			<p><em>tavern-token</em>⁠—“to swallow a⁠—,” get drunk.</p>
			<p><em>tell</em>⁠—count.</p>
			<p><em>tell-troth</em>⁠—truth-teller.</p>
			<p><em>temper</em>⁠—modify, soften.</p>
			<p><em>tender</em>⁠—show regard, care for, cherish; manifest.</p>
			<p><em>tent</em>⁠—“take⁠—,” take heed.</p>
			<p><em>terse</em>⁠—swept and polished.</p>
			<p><em>tertia</em>⁠—“that portion of an army levied out of one particular district or division of a country” (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>teston</em>⁠—tester, coin worth 6d.</p>
			<p><em>thirdborough</em>⁠—constable.</p>
			<p><em>thread</em>⁠—quality.</p>
			<p><em>threaves</em>⁠—droves.</p>
			<p><em>three-farthings</em>⁠—piece of silver current under Elizabeth.</p>
			<p><em>three-piled</em>⁠—of finest quality, exaggerated.</p>
			<p><em>thriftily</em>⁠—carefully.</p>
			<p><em>thrums</em>⁠—ends of the weaver’s warp; coarse yarn made from.</p>
			<p><em>thumb-ring</em>⁠—familiar spirits were supposed capable of being carried about in various ornaments or parts of dress.</p>
			<p><em>tibicine</em>⁠—player on the tibia, or pipe.</p>
			<p><em>tick-tack</em>⁠—game similar to backgammon.</p>
			<p><em>tightly</em>⁠—promptly.</p>
			<p><em>tim</em>⁠—(?) expressive of a climax of nonentity.</p>
			<p><em>timeless</em>⁠—untimely, unseasonable.</p>
			<p><em>tincture</em>⁠—an essential or spiritual principle supposed by alchemists to be transfusible into material things; an imparted characteristic or tendency.</p>
			<p><em>tink</em>⁠—tinkle.</p>
			<p><em>tippet</em>⁠—“turn⁠—,” change behaviour or way of life.</p>
			<p><em>tipstaff</em>⁠—staff tipped with metal.</p>
			<p><em>tire</em>⁠—head-dress.</p>
			<p><em>tire</em>⁠—feed ravenously, like a bird of prey.</p>
			<p><em>titillation</em>⁠—that which tickles the senses, as a perfume.</p>
			<p><em>tod</em>⁠—fox.</p>
			<p><em>toiled</em>⁠—worn out, harassed.</p>
			<p><em>token</em>⁠—piece of base metal used in place of very small coin, when this was scarce.</p>
			<p><em>tonnels</em>⁠—nostrils.</p>
			<p><em>top</em>⁠—“parish⁠—,” large top kept in villages for amusement and exercise in frosty weather when people were out of work.</p>
			<p><em>toter</em>⁠—tooter, player on a wind instrument.</p>
			<p><em>touse</em>⁠—pull, rend.</p>
			<p><em>toward</em>⁠—docile, apt; on the way to; as regards; present, at hand.</p>
			<p><em>toy</em>⁠—whim; trick; term of contempt.</p>
			<p><em>tract</em>⁠—attraction.</p>
			<p><em>train</em>⁠—allure, entice.</p>
			<p><em>transitory</em>⁠—transmittable.</p>
			<p><em>translate</em>⁠—transform.</p>
			<p><em>tray-trip</em>⁠—game at dice (success depended on throwing a three) (Nares).</p>
			<p><em>treachour (trecher)</em>⁠—traitor.</p>
			<p><em>treen</em>⁠—wooden.</p>
			<p><em>trencher</em>⁠—serving-man who carved or served food.</p>
			<p><em>trendle-tail</em>⁠—trundle-tail, curly-tailed.</p>
			<p><em>trick (tricking)</em>⁠—term of heraldry: to draw outline of coat of arms, etc., without blazoning.</p>
			<p><em>trig</em>⁠—a spruce, dandified man.</p>
			<p><em>trill</em>⁠—trickle.</p>
			<p><em>trillibub</em>⁠—tripe, any worthless, trifling thing.</p>
			<p><em>tripoly</em>⁠—“come from⁠—,” able to perform feats of agility, a “jest nominal,” depending on the first part of the word (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>trite</em>⁠—worn, shabby.</p>
			<p><em>trivia</em>⁠—three-faced goddess (Hecate).</p>
			<p><em>trojan</em>⁠—familiar term for an equal or inferior; thief.</p>
			<p><em>troll</em>⁠—sing loudly.</p>
			<p><em>tromp</em>⁠—trump, deceive.</p>
			<p><em>trope</em>⁠—figure of speech.</p>
			<p><em>trow</em>⁠—think, believe, wonder.</p>
			<p><em>trowle</em>⁠—troll.</p>
			<p><em>trowses</em>⁠—breeches, drawers.</p>
			<p><em>truchman</em>⁠—interpreter.</p>
			<p><em>trundle, john</em>⁠—, well-known printer.</p>
			<p><em>trundle</em>⁠—roll, go rolling along.</p>
			<p><em>trundling cheats</em>⁠—term among gipsies and beggars for carts or coaches (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>trunk</em>⁠—speaking-tube.</p>
			<p><em>truss</em>⁠—tie the tagged laces that fastened the breeches to the doublet.</p>
			<p><em>tubicine</em>⁠—trumpeter.</p>
			<p><em>tucket (ital. toccato)</em>⁠—introductory flourish on the trumpet.</p>
			<p><em>tuition</em>⁠—guardianship.</p>
			<p><em>tumbler</em>⁠—a particular kind of dog so called from the mode of his hunting.</p>
			<p><em>tumbrel-slop</em>⁠—loose, baggy breeches.</p>
			<p><em>turd</em>⁠—excrement.</p>
			<p><em>tusk</em>⁠—gnash the teeth (Century Dict.).</p>
			<p><em>twire</em>⁠—peep, twinkle.</p>
			<p><em>twopenny room</em>⁠—gallery.</p>
			<p><em>tyring-house</em>⁠—attiring-room.</p>
			<p><em>ulenspiegel</em>⁠—See Howleglass.</p>
			<p><em>umbratile</em>⁠—like or pertaining to a shadow.</p>
			<p><em>umbre</em>⁠—brown dye.</p>
			<p><em>unbated</em>⁠—unabated.</p>
			<p><em>unbored</em>⁠—(?) excessively bored.</p>
			<p><em>uncarnate</em>⁠—not fleshly, or of flesh.</p>
			<p><em>uncouth</em>⁠—strange, unusual.</p>
			<p><em>undertaker</em>⁠—“one who undertook by his influence in the House of Commons to carry things agreeably to his Majesty’s wishes” (Whalley); one who becomes surety for.</p>
			<p><em>unequal</em>⁠—unjust.</p>
			<p><em>unexcepted</em>⁠—no objection taken at.</p>
			<p><em>unfeared</em>⁠—unaffrighted.</p>
			<p><em>unhappily</em>⁠—unfortunately.</p>
			<p><em>unicorn’s horn</em>⁠—supposed antidote to poison.</p>
			<p><em>unkind(ly)</em>⁠—unnatural(ly).</p>
			<p><em>unmanned</em>⁠—untamed (term in falconry).</p>
			<p><em>unquit</em>⁠—undischarged.</p>
			<p><em>unready</em>⁠—undressed.</p>
			<p><em>unrude</em>⁠—rude to an extreme.</p>
			<p><em>unseasoned</em>⁠—unseasonable, unripe.</p>
			<p><em>unseeled</em>⁠—a hawk’s eyes were “seeled” by sewing the eyelids together with fine thread.</p>
			<p><em>untimely</em>⁠—unseasonably.</p>
			<p><em>unvaluable</em>⁠—invaluable.</p>
			<p><em>upbraid</em>⁠—make a matter of reproach.</p>
			<p><em>upsee</em>⁠—heavy kind of Dutch beer (Halliwell); “⁠—Dutch,” in the Dutch fashion.</p>
			<p><em>uptails all</em>⁠—refrain of a popular song.</p>
			<p><em>urge</em>⁠—allege as accomplice, instigator.</p>
			<p><em>urshin, urchin</em>⁠—, hedgehog.</p>
			<p><em>use</em>⁠—interest on money; part of sermon dealing with the practical application of doctrine.</p>
			<p><em>use</em>⁠—be in the habit of, accustomed to; put out to interest.</p>
			<p><em>usquebaugh</em>⁠—whisky.</p>
			<p><em>usure</em>⁠—usury.</p>
			<p><em>utter</em>⁠—put in circulation, make to pass current; put forth for sale.</p>
			<p><em>vail</em>⁠—bow, do homage.</p>
			<p><em>vails</em>⁠—tips, gratuities.</p>
			<p><em>vall</em>⁠—See Vail.</p>
			<p><em>vallies (fr. valise)</em>⁠—portmanteau, bag.</p>
			<p><em>vapour(s)</em> (n. and v.)⁠—used affectedly, like “humour,” in many senses, often very vaguely and freely ridiculed by Jonson; humour, disposition, whims, brag(ging), hector(ing), etc.</p>
			<p><em>varlet</em>⁠—bailiff, or serjeant-at-mace.</p>
			<p><em>vaut</em>⁠—vault.</p>
			<p><em>veer (naut.)</em>⁠—pay out.</p>
			<p><em>vegetal</em>⁠—vegetable; person full of life and vigour.</p>
			<p><em>vellute</em>⁠—velvet.</p>
			<p><em>velvet custard</em>⁠—Cf. “Taming of the Shrew,” iv. 3, 82, “custard coffin,” coffin being the raised crust over a pie.</p>
			<p><em>vent</em>⁠—vend, sell; give outlet to; scent, snuff up.</p>
			<p><em>venue</em>⁠—bout (fencing term).</p>
			<p><em>verdugo (span.)</em>⁠—hangman, executioner.</p>
			<p><em>verge</em>⁠—“in the⁠—,” within a certain distance of the court.</p>
			<p><em>vex</em>⁠—agitate, torment.</p>
			<p><em>vice</em>⁠—the buffoon of old moralities; some kind of machinery for moving a puppet (Gifford).</p>
			<p><em>vie and revie</em>⁠—to hazard a certain sum, and to cover it with a larger one.</p>
			<p><em>vincent against york</em>⁠—two heralds-at-arms.</p>
			<p><em>vindicate</em>⁠—avenge.</p>
			<p><em>virge</em>⁠—wand, rod.</p>
			<p><em>virginal</em>⁠—old form of piano.</p>
			<p><em>virtue</em>⁠—valour.</p>
			<p><em>vively</em>⁠—in lifelike manner, livelily.</p>
			<p><em>vizard</em>⁠—mask.</p>
			<p><em>vogue</em>⁠—rumour, gossip.</p>
			<p><em>voice</em>⁠—vote.</p>
			<p><em>void</em>⁠—leave, quit.</p>
			<p><em>volary</em>⁠—cage, aviary.</p>
			<p><em>volley</em>⁠—“at⁠—,” “o’ the volee,” at random (from a term of tennis).</p>
			<p><em>vorloffe</em>⁠—furlough.</p>
			<p><em>wadloe</em>⁠—keeper of the Devil Tavern, where Jonson and his friends met in the ‘Apollo’ room (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>waights</em>⁠—waits, night musicians, “band of musical watchmen” (Webster), or old form of “hautboys.”</p>
			<p><em>wannion</em>⁠—“vengeance,” “plague” (Nares).</p>
			<p><em>ward</em>⁠—a famous pirate.</p>
			<p><em>ward</em>⁠—guard in fencing.</p>
			<p><em>watchet</em>⁠—pale, sky blue.</p>
			<p><em>weal</em>⁠—welfare.</p>
			<p><em>weed</em>⁠—garment.</p>
			<p><em>weft</em>⁠—waif.</p>
			<p><em>weights</em>⁠—“to the gold⁠—,” to every minute particular.</p>
			<p><em>welkin</em>⁠—sky.</p>
			<p><em>well-spoken</em>⁠—of fair speech.</p>
			<p><em>well-torned</em>⁠—turned and polished, as on a wheel.</p>
			<p><em>welt</em>⁠—hem, border of fur.</p>
			<p><em>wher</em>⁠—whether.</p>
			<p><em>whetstone, george</em>⁠—, an author who lived 1544(?) to 1587(?).</p>
			<p><em>whiff</em>⁠—a smoke, or drink; “taking the⁠—,” inhaling the tobacco smoke or some such accomplishment.</p>
			<p><em>whigh-hies</em>⁠—neighings, whinnyings.</p>
			<p><em>whimsy</em>⁠—whim, “humour.”</p>
			<p><em>whiniling</em>⁠—(?) whining, weakly.</p>
			<p><em>whit</em>⁠—(?) a mere jot.</p>
			<p><em>whitemeat</em>⁠—food made of milk or eggs.</p>
			<p><em>wicked</em>⁠—bad, clumsy.</p>
			<p><em>wicker</em>⁠—pliant, agile.</p>
			<p><em>wilding</em>⁠—esp. fruit of wild apple or crab tree (Webster).</p>
			<p><em>wine</em>⁠—“I have the⁠—for you,” Prov.: I have the perquisites (of the office) which you are to share (Cunningham).</p>
			<p><em>winny</em>⁠—“same as old word “wonne,” to stay, etc.” (Whalley).</p>
			<p><em>wise-woman</em>⁠—fortune-teller.</p>
			<p><em>wish</em>⁠—recommend.</p>
			<p><em>wiss (wusse)</em>⁠—“I⁠—,” certainly, of a truth.</p>
			<p><em>without</em>⁠—beyond.</p>
			<p><em>witty</em>⁠—cunning, ingenious, clever.</p>
			<p><em>wood</em>⁠—collection, lot.</p>
			<p><em>woodcock</em>⁠—term of contempt.</p>
			<p><em>woolsack (“⁠—pies”)</em>⁠—name of tavern.</p>
			<p><em>wort</em>⁠—unfermented beer.</p>
			<p><em>woundy</em>⁠—great, extreme.</p>
			<p><em>wreak</em>⁠—revenge.</p>
			<p><em>wrought</em>⁠—wrought upon.</p>
			<p><em>wusse</em>⁠—interjection. (See Wiss).</p>
			<p><em>yeanling</em>⁠—lamb, kid.</p>
			<p><em>zany</em>⁠—an inferior clown, who attended upon the chief fool and mimicked his tricks.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
