<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="dedication-to-reader" epub:type="dedication">
			<h2 epub:type="title">List of Works</h2>
			<p>The following is a complete list of his published works:⁠—</p>
			<p>DRAMAS:</p>
			<p>Every Man in his Humour, quarto, 1601;</p>
			<p>The Case is Altered, quarto, 1609;</p>
			<p>Every Man out of his Humour, quarto, 1600;</p>
			<p>Cynthia’s Revels, quarto, 1601;</p>
			<p>Poetaster, quarto, 1602;</p>
			<p>Sejanus, quarto, 1605;</p>
			<p>Eastward Ho (with Chapman and Marston), quarto, 1605;</p>
			<p>Volpone, quarto, 1607;</p>
			<p>Epicoene, or the Silent Woman, quarto, 1609 (?), folio, 1616;</p>
			<p>The Alchemist, quarto, 1612;</p>
			<p>Catiline, his Conspiracy, quarto, 1611;</p>
			<p>Bartholomew Fayre, quarto, 1614 (?), folio, 1631;</p>
			<p>The Divell is an Asse, folio, 1631;</p>
			<p>The Staple of Newes, folio, 1631;</p>
			<p>The New Sun, 8vo, 1631, folio, 1692;</p>
			<p>The Magnetic Lady, or Humours Reconcild, folio, 1640;</p>
			<p>A Tale of a Tub, folio, 1640;</p>
			<p>The Sad Shepherd, or a Tale of Robin Hood, folio, 1641;</p>
			<p>Mortimer his Fall (fragment), folio, 1640. To Jonson have also been attributed additions to Kyd’s Jeronymo, and collaboration in The Widow with Fletcher and Middleton, and in the Bloody Brother with Fletcher.</p>
			<p>POEMS:</p>
			<p>Epigrams, The Forrest, Underwoods, published in folio., 1616, 1640;</p>
			<p>Selections:</p>
			<p>Execration against Vulcan, and Epigrams, 1640;</p>
			<p>G. Hor. Flaccus his art of Poetry, Englished by Ben Jonson, 1640;</p>
			<p>Leges Convivialis, folio, 1692. Other minor poems first appeared in Gifford’s edition of Works.</p>
			<p>PROSE:</p>
			<p>Timber, or Discoveries made upon Men and Matter, folio, 1641;</p>
			<p>The English Grammar, made by Ben Jonson for the benefit of Strangers, folio, 1640. Masques and Entertainments were published in the early folios.</p>
			<p>WORKS:</p>
			<p>Fol., 1616, volume. 2, 1640 (1631⁠–⁠41);</p>
			<p>folio, 1692, 1716⁠–⁠19, 1729;</p>
			<p>edited by P. Whalley, 7 volumes., 1756;</p>
			<p>by Gifford (with Memoir), 9 volumes., 1816, 1846;</p>
			<p>re-edited by F. Cunningham, 3 volumes., 1871;</p>
			<p>in 9 volumes., 1875;</p>
			<p>by Barry Cornwall (with Memoir), 1838;</p>
			<p>by B. Nicholson (Mermaid Series), with Introduction by C. H. Herford, 1893, etc.;</p>
			<p>Nine Plays, 1904;</p>
			<p>ed. H. C. Hart (Standard Library), 1906, etc;</p>
			<p>Plays and Poems, with Introduction by H. Morley (Universal Library), 1885;</p>
			<p>Plays (7) and Poems (Newnes), 1905;</p>
			<p>Poems, with Memoir by H. Bennett (Carlton Classics), 1907;</p>
			<p>Masques and Entertainments, ed. by H. Morley, 1890. SELECTIONS: J. A. Symonds, with Biographical and Critical Essay, (Canterbury Poets), 1886;</p>
			<p>Grosart, Brave Translunary Things, 1895;</p>
			<p>Arber, Jonson Anthology, 1901;</p>
			<p>Underwoods, Cambridge University Press, 1905;</p>
			<p>Lyrics (Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher), the Chap Books, No. 4, 1906;</p>
			<p>Songs (from Plays, Masques, etc.), with earliest known setting, Eragny Press, 1906. LIFE: See Memoirs affixed to Works;</p>
			<p>J. A. Symonds (English Worthies), 1886;</p>
			<p>Notes of Ben Jonson Conversations with Drummond of Hawthornden;</p>
			<p>Shakespeare Society, 1842;</p>
			<p>ed. with Introduction and Notes by P. Sidney, 1906;</p>
			<p>Swinburne, A Study of Ben Jonson, 1889.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
